<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20070402_10-K_edgar_data_276283_0001104659-07-024861_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2648108</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>461816</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>20565</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1543000</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>57</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001104659-07-024861.hdr.sgml : 20070402
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20070402155813
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001104659-07-024861
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20061231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20070402
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20070402

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EVANS & SUTHERLAND COMPUTER CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000276283
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MISCELLANEOUS ELECTRICAL MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES [3690]
		IRS NUMBER:				870278175
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			UT
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14677
		FILM NUMBER:		07738922

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		770 KOMAS DR
		CITY:			SALT LAKE CITY
		STATE:			UT
		ZIP:			84108
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8015881815

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		770 KOMAS DR
		CITY:			SALT LAKE CITY
		STATE:			UT
		ZIP:			84108

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Dc/fMwAQGILlC7OI0UR8MxTeomFF3QKCs9yosKamisxDhhLHLjxCWv4hiBnKgy15
 q1QtfMhBUTu/z+J8V5rELg==

 0001104659-07-024861.txt : 20070402

10-K
 1
 a07-5744_110k.htm
 10-K

UNITED STATES   

   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION   

   Washington,
D.C. 20549   

   FORM 10-K   

   (Mark One)   

   x                                  ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934 

   For
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006   

   or   

   o                                     TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934 

   For
the transition period from                                           
to                                                          

   Commission
file number 0-8771   

   EVANS   SUTHERLAND COMPUTER CORPORATION   

  (Exact name of registrant
as specified in its charter)  

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:  801-588-1000   

  Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

   NONE   

  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of
the Act:  

Title of
  Each Class   

Name of
  Exchange on Which Registered   

Common Stock, $0.20 par
  value  

The NASDAQ Global Market  

Preferred Stock Purchase Plan Rights  

The NASDAQ Global Market  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   o  Yes   x  No 

  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.   o  Yes   x  No 

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.   x  Yes   o  No 

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy
or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   o  

  Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a
non-accelerated filer. See definition of  accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):  

Large accelerated
  filer  o  

Accelerated filer   o  

Non-accelerated filer   x  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Act).   o  Yes   x  No 

  The aggregate market value of the voting and
non-voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of June 30, 2006, the last business day of the registrants
most recently completed second fiscal quarter was approximately $28,455,655,
based on the closing market price of the common stock on such date as reported
by The Nasdaq Stock Market.  

  The number of shares of
the registrant s Common Stock outstanding as of March 27, 2007 was
11,089,166.  

EVANS   SUTHERLAND COMPUTER CORPORATION     

   FORM 10-K   

   FOR
THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2006   

PART I  

ITEM 1.   

BUSINESS   

3  

ITEM
  1A.   

RISK FACTORS   

7  

ITEM 2.   

PROPERTIES   

11  

ITEM
  3.   

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   

11  

ITEM 4.   

SUBMISSIONS OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   

11  

PART II   

ITEM 5.   

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED
  STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   

12  

ITEM
  6.   

SELECTED
  FINANCIAL DATA   

14  

ITEM 7.   

MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
  CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

16  

ITEM 7A.   

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
  RISK   

30  

ITEM 8.   

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   

31  

ITEM 9.   

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS AND
  ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   

65  

ITEM 9A.   

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   

65  

ITEM
  9B.   

OTHER
  INFORMATION   

65  

PART III   

ITEM 10.   

DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORTATE
  GOVERNANCE   

66  

ITEM 11.   

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   

66  

ITEM 12.   

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
  MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   

66  

ITEM 13.   

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND
  DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE   

67  

ITEM 14.   

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES   

67  

PART IV   

ITEM 15.   

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   

68  

SIGNATURES   

73  

2  

PART I     

   ITEM 1.                    BUSINESS   

  Throughout this document Evans   Sutherland
Computer Corporation may be referred to as  Evans   Sutherland,   E S, 
 we,   us,   our  or the  Company.   All
dollar amounts are in thousands unless otherwise indicated.  

  Evans   Sutherland
was incorporated in the state of Utah on May 10, 1968. Our principal
offices are located at 770 Komas Drive, Salt Lake City, Utah 84108, and our
telephone number is (801) 588-1000. Through a link on our website,
www.es.com, we make available, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K,
and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such
material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission (the  SEC ). We make our website content available for
informational purposes only. The information provided on our website is not
incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. The above reports and
other information are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov. Alternatively,
the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information
on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling
the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  

   Sale of Business
Unit     

  On May 26, 2006, we completed the sale of
substantially all of the assets and certain liabilities primarily related to
our commercial and military simulation businesses and related service
operations (the  Simulation Business ) to certain subsidiaries of Rockwell
Collins, Inc., a Delaware corporation ( Rockwell Collins ), pursuant to an
asset purchase agreement (the  Asset Purchase Agreement ), dated as of February 7,
2006, by and between the Company and Rockwell Collins. In connection with the
completion of the sale of the Simulation Business, on May 26, 2006 the
Company entered into a laser projection systems agreement (the  Laser Agreement )
with Rockwell Collins and Rockwell Collins Simulation   Training
Solutions LLC, pursuant to which the Company has agreed to provide, and grant
exclusive and non-exclusive intellectual property licenses to use and sell,
laser projection systems in connection with the Simulation Business and certain
related businesses of Rockwell Collins.  

  Further information
concerning the sale of the Simulation Businesses is provided in Note 2 of Item
8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  and in Item 7  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Results of Operations 
included in Part II of this annual report on Form 10-K.  

   Acquisition     

  On April 28, 2006, the Company completed the
acquisition of Spitz, Inc. ( Spitz ) by acquiring all outstanding shares
of Spitz common stock from Transnational Industries, Inc. ( Transnational )
pursuant to a stock purchase agreement (the  Stock Purchase Agreement ), dated
as of February 7, 2006, by and between the Company and Transnational. Spitz  designs, manufactures and supports
optical-mechanical and digital visual systems for planetariums, science centers
and entertainment venues. Spitz also produces unique domes and curved
structures for specialized architectural applications. We believe that the
Spitz visual system products and domes along with its customer base complement
the digital theater products of Evans   Sutherland and will enhance
our capabilities to serve the markets we target.  

  Further information
concerning the acquisition of Spitz is provided in Note 3 of Item 8  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data  and in Item 7  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Position and Results of Operations  included in Part II
of this annual report on Form 10-K.  

3     

General     

  Since the sale of the Simulation Business and the
acquisition of Spitz, Evans   Sutherland focuses on the production of
high-quality visual systems, advanced displays including the laser projector
(ESLP), dome projection screens, dome architectural treatments, and unique
content for planetariums, science centers, other educational institutions, and
entertainment venues. With a 38-year history in computer graphics, we are
widely regarded as both a pioneer and a leader in providing the world s most
compelling visual systems. With the acquisition of Spitz and its over 50-year
history as a leading supplier of planetarium systems and other dome displays,
E S now supplies premier total system solutions for its digital theater
markets as well as customized domes and other curved structures in the
architectural market.  

  We continue to maintain a
significant share of the overall planetarium and digital theater market. We
estimate that our market share has ranged from 35% to 70%, depending on the
specific market and time period. We estimate that the size of the market for
digital theater and planetarium systems is approximately $65 million annually.  

   Description of
Products     

  E S offers a range of
products and services for digital theater, planetarium, and educational
institutions. These products include state of the art image generators, domes,
and display systems some of which feature our unique laser projector (ESLP)
that provides a seamless high resolution display from a single projector. Additionally,
we produce unique content both for our own library which we license to
customers and for specific customer requirements.  

   Description of
Markets     

  We are an industry leader
in providing visual systems to an international customer base in the digital
theater, planetarium, and educational markets. Through our Spitz subsidiary, we
also supply dome projection screens and dome architectural treatments to major
theme parks, casinos, world expositions, and military defense contractors. In
each of these markets we face highly competitive conditions. In all our markets
we compete on features, performance, and responsiveness to customer needs as
well as on price. E S is unique among its competitors by virtue of its
capability as a single source that can directly supply and integrate all of the
equipment in the planetarium theater, including the projection system, sound,
lighting, computer control system and domed projection screen. We believe our
range of visual systems and services at various price and performance levels,
our research and development investments and capabilities, our responsiveness
to customers, and our ability to design and manufacture value-added visual
systems enable us to compete effectively.  

    Digital Theater    

  In the digital theater
market our products compete with traditional optical-mechanical products and
digital display systems offered by GOTO Optical Mfg. Co., Konica-Minolta
Planetarium Co. Ltd., Carl Zeiss Inc., and Sky-Skan, Inc. During 2006 our
share of this market increased modestly from revenue contributed by our newly
acquired subsidiary Spitz. We expect this market share to increase as we
complete the integration of Spitz and realize a full year of results for the
new combined business.  

    Advanced Displays    

  We began work in 1997 to
build a new generation of projection technology with specifications beyond any
other technology either available or likely in the foreseeable future. This
goal evolved into the production of a revolutionary projector using lasers for
illumination and micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) to modulate the laser
light and create an image. The result is the Evans   Sutherland Laser   

4     

Projector
(ESLP). The first ESLP systems were delivered late in 2005, with additional
units delivered in 2006. The first units have been supplied to our traditional
simulation  and digital theater customers
who continue to order systems with the new projection technology. We believe
that the ESLP also has application to other markets in the future where
ultra-high resolution, high efficiency, excellent image quality, and low
life-cycle cost are important considerations.  

    Domed Structures    

  Our subsidiary Spitz is
the world s leading producer of domed projection screens. Spitz designs,
manufactures, and installs domed projection screens which are used in
planetarium theaters and a variety of other applications such as ride
simulators, special or large format film theaters, simulation training systems
and architectural treatments. Spitz s experience enables it to advise on the
architectural integration of domed projection screens and solve complex optical
problems involving reflectivity and image distortion on compound curved
surfaces. The Company believes that these skills are important to buyers of
domed projection screens. The principal customers in Spitz s dome business are
entities in the entertainment, educational and commercial and military
simulation markets. Customers include major theme parks, casinos, world
expositions, museums, schools, and military defense contractors. There is
currently one known domestic competitor that manufactures domed projection
screens. In addition, construction or metal fabrication contractors will
occasionally supply domed projection screens, particularly in foreign markets.  

   Backlog     

  On December 31, 2006,
our backlog was $20,408 compared with $16,548 on December 31, 2005
adjusted for the discontinued operations of the Simulation Business. We
anticipate that approximately 85% of the 2006 backlog will be converted to
sales in 2007.  

   Significant
Customers     

  Worldwide customers using our products include
museums, planetariums, science centers, theme parks, casinos, aerospace
companies, and international armed forces. We measure and identify our
significant customers based on direct sales.  

  Sales to no single
customer represented more than 10% of total sales during 2006. Sales to two
customers represented 12% and 11% of total sales during 2005. Sales to two
customers represented 13% and 11% of total sales during 2004.  

   Intellectual
Property     

  We own a significant
number of patents and trademarks and we are a licensee under several others. Our
portfolio of patents and trademarks is, as a whole, material to our business. However,
no one piece of intellectual property is critical to our business, thus no
individual piece of our intellectual property is separately discussed. In the
U.S. and internationally, we hold active patents that cover many aspects of our
visualization technology. Several patent applications are presently pending in
the U.S., Japan and several European countries, and other patent applications
are in preparation. We actively pursue patents on our new technology and we
intend to vigorously protect our patent rights. We routinely copyright
software, documentation and chip masks designed by us and institute copyright
registration when appropriate. During the history of the Company we have been
awarded 86 patents, of which 59 are still active. The sale of the Simulation
Business transferred certain patents and other intellectual property rights
primarily related to the Simulation Business to Rockwell Collins. Also, we
acquired rights to the intellectual property of Elumens Corporation in its
bankruptcy liquidation. The rights to the Elumens intellectual property protect
the application of certain processes in the use of the Company s visual display
products.  

5     

Research  
Development     

  We consider the timely development and improvement of
our technology to be essential to maintain our competitive position and to
capitalize on market opportunities. We continue to fund essentially all
research and development ( R D ) efforts internally.  

  A significant focus for
our R D in 2006 was the continued development of our laser projector, the
ESLP. We delivered ESLP s in the fourth quarter of 2005 to the Air Force and
began delivery of the ESLP to planetariums in January 2006. Efforts to
improve production process, performance and reliability of the laser projector
will continue through 2007. In addition we are exploring the potential
application of the ESLP technology in new markets through partnering and
licensing arrangements.  

   Dependence on
Suppliers     

  Most of our current parts
and assemblies are readily available through multiple sources in the open
market; however, a limited number are available only from a single source. In
these cases, we either stock adequate inventory to cover future product
demands, obtain the agreement of the vendor to maintain adequate stock for
future demands, or develop alternative components or sources where appropriate.  

   Foreign Sales     

  Foreign sales are
calculated based on the location of the purchasing customer and were $7,984 in
2006, $5,814 in 2005, and $6,223 in 2004 adjusted for the discontinued
operations of the Simulation Business. Foreign sales accounted for
approximately 53%, 38%, and 66% of total sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
We believe that any inherent risk that may exist in our foreign operations is
not material.  

   Employees     

  As of December 31,
2006, Evans   Sutherland and its subsidiaries employed a total of 118
persons compared to 268 employees as of December 31, 2005. The change
in number of employees was attributable principally to the discontinued
operations of the Simulation Business and the acquisition of Spitz. Following
the completion of the sale of the Simulation Business, we retained 64 employees
and gained 54 employees from our Spitz acquisition. We believe our relations
with our employees are good. None of our employees are subject to collective
bargaining agreements.  

   Environmental
Standards     

  We believe our facilities
and operations are within standards fully acceptable to the Environmental
Protection Agency and that all facilities and procedures are operated in
accordance with environmental rules and regulations, and international,
federal, state and local laws.  

   Strategic
Relationships     

  In the normal course of business
we develop and maintain various types of relationships with key customers and
technology partners. In 2006, we entered into a limited number of teaming
agreements and product development agreements. The teaming agreements are with
industry partners and are intended to improve our overall competitive position.
The product development agreements enhance our products by the cooperative
development of new features and capabilities necessary to maintain our industry
leading position. These activities will continue in 2007.  

6     

Forward-Looking
Statements and Associated Risks     

  This annual report,
including all documents incorporated herein by reference, includes certain  forward-looking
statements  within the meaning of that term in Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, including, among others, those statements preceded by,
followed by or including the words  estimates,   believes,   expects,   anticipates, 
 plans,   projects,   intends,   predicts,   may,   will,   could,   would,   potential 
and similar expressions or the negative of such terms. See Item 7  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
included in Part II of this annual report on Form 10-K for a
list of some of the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K.
See Item 1A  Risk Factors  below for factors that may affect these
forward-looking statements.  

   EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
OF THE REGISTRANT     

  The
following sets forth certain information regarding the executive officers of
E S as of March 28, 2007.  

Name   

Age   

Position   

David H. Bateman  

64  

President and Chief
  Executive Officer  

Paul L. Dailey  

50  

Chief Financial Officer
  and Corporate Secretary  

Bob Morishita  

55  

Vice President Human
  Resources  

Kirk D. Johnson  

45  

Vice President and
  General Manager of Digital Theater  

Allen H. Tanner  

53  

Vice President and
  General Manager of Advanced Displays  

Jonathan A. Shaw  

50  

President and Chief Executive Officer of
  Spitz, Inc.  

David H. Bateman was appointed President and Chief
Executive Officer of E S in February 2007. Mr. Bateman joined
E S as Director of Business Operations in May 1998. He was appointed
Vice President Business Operations in March 2000 and Interim President and
Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors in June 2006.  

  Paul L. Dailey was appointed Chief Financial Officer
and Corporate Secretary of E S in February 2007. He became an
executive officer of E S in August 2006 when he was appointed Acting
Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary. Prior to his appointments at
E S, Mr. Dailey served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and Corporate Secretary of E S subsidiary, Spitz Inc. where he
started as Controller in 1983. Mr. Dailey is a Certified Public
Accountant.  

  Bob Morishita was appointed Vice President of Human
Resources in 2000. He joined E S as Compensation Manager in 1982 and was
appointed Human Resources Director in 1997.  

  Kirk Johnson was appointed Vice President and General
Manager of Digital Theater in January 2002. He joined E S in April 1990
and has held various engineering and management positions throughout his
service at E S.  

  Allen H. Tanner was appointed Vice President and
General Manager of Advanced Displays in January 2000. He has held various
engineering and management positions throughout his service at E S since
1996.  

  Jonathan A. Shaw was
appointed President and Chief Executive Officer E S subsidiary, Spitz Inc. in
November 2001 where he held various management positions since 1985.  

   ITEM 1A.            RISK
FACTORS   

   Our domestic and international businesses
operate in highly competitive markets that involve a number of risks, some of
which are beyond our control. The sale of the Simulation Business to Rockwell   

7     

Collins
on May 26, 2006, has significantly changed our business. As a result,
there are new risks and uncertainties that should be considered in evaluating
our business. The following discussion highlights some risks and uncertainties
that should be considered in evaluating our growth outlook.  

    Our Business Model Has Changed and May Not
Produce Consistent Earnings Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business    

  With the sale of our
Simulation Business to Rockwell Collins, our business model has significantly
changed. Our business is now based on digital theaters and laser projectors. A
significant portion of our future success will depend on completing and selling
our laser projector, and future products based on this technology. There is no
guarantee that the laser projector or any future products based on this
technology will be successful in the market or that we can develop them. If we
are unable to develop our laser projector, our business will be adversely
affected.  

    We May Experience Difficulty in Identifying, Forming
and Maintaining New Business Opportunities That Are Important To the
Development of Our Business    

  We have invested, and
expect to continue to invest, significant capital in new products,
technologies, and business opportunities. We cannot assure you that we will be
able to continue to identify suitable opportunities to expand our business in
the future. The failure to form or maintain new business opportunities could
significantly limit our ability to expand our operations and sales. Moreover,
these new opportunities or investments require significant management time,
involve a high degree of risk and will present significant challenges. We
cannot assure you that these activities will be successful or that we will
realize appropriate returns on these activities.  

    Our Laser Projectors are New and have Limited Market
Penetration    

  Our laser projectors have
limited market penetration. Our future success will depend in significant part
on our ability to generate demand for our laser projectors and to develop additional
commercial applications that incorporate our laser projector technology. We
cannot be certain that our product will succeed in the market, and if we fail
to generate increased sales, our future results of operations will be adversely
affected.  

    We May be Unable to Adequately Respond to Rapid
Changes in Technology    

  The market for our laser
projectors is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry
standards and frequent product introductions. The introduction of products and
services embodying new technology and the emergence of new industry standards
may render our existing laser projectors obsolete and unmarketable if we are
unable to adapt to change. A significant factor in our ability to grow and to
remain competitive is our ability to successfully introduce new products and
services that embody new technology, anticipate and incorporate evolving
industry standards and achieve levels of functionality and prices acceptable to
the market. If our laser projectors are unable to meet our customers  needs or
we are unable to keep pace with technological changes in the industry, our
laser projectors could eventually become obsolete. We may be unable to allocate
the funds necessary to improve our current products or introduce new products
to address our customers  needs and respond to technological change. If other
companies develop more technologically advanced products, our competitive
position relative to such companies would be harmed.  

    Competitors or Third Parties May Infringe E S
Intellectual Property    

  Throughout its history
E S has been awarded numerous patents. While competitors or third parties
have not materially infringed our patents, we are entering the production stage
of a new product, the   

8     

ESLP. We
have a number of patents either issued or pending on this technology, but it
represents a new field for us and may attract competitors with a risk of
infringement and costly legal processes to defend our intellectual property
rights which could adversely affect our business.  

    Delays in New Product Introductions Could Negatively
Affect Financial Performance    

  During 2006 and into 2007,
we have introduced and intend to introduce several important new products,
including the ESLP. Further delays in introducing and delivering these products
could reduce planned sales and profit contribution.  

    Our Industry Is Undergoing Rapid Technological
Changes, And Our Failure To Keep Up With Such Changes Could Cause Us To Lose
Customers And Impede Our Ability To Attract New Customers    

  Our success depends on our ability to compete in an
industry that is highly competitive, with rapid technological advances and
products that require constant improvement in both price and performance. We
expect this trend to continue. If our competitors are more successful than we
are in developing technology and products, then our revenues and growth rates
could decline.  

  Our industry is subject to
rapid and significant changes in technology as well as customer requirements
and preferences, and our failure to keep up with such changes could cause us to
lose customers and impede our ability to attract new customers. New
technologies could reduce the competitiveness of our theater and projector
products. We may be required to select one technology over another, but at a
time when it would be impossible to predict with any certainty which technology
will prove to be the most economic, efficient or capable of attracting customer
usage. Subsequent technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of
our products and require upgrades or additional products that could be
expensive or unfeasible. If we fail to adapt successfully to technological
changes or customer preferences, we could lose market share or impede our
ability to attract new customers and retain current customers.  

    Resistance By Potential New Customers To Accept Our
Products May Reduce Our Ability To Increase Our Revenue    

  The expansion of our
business will be dependent upon, among other things, the willingness of
additional customers to accept our products and technologies. We cannot assure
you that we will be successful in overcoming the resistance of potential
customers to change their current projectors or theater technologies, and to
expend the capital necessary to purchase and implement our products and
technology. The lack of customer acceptance would reduce our ability to
increase our revenue.  

    Our Sales Could Decline Substantially as a Result of
Terrorist Attacks and Other Activities that Reduce the Willingness of Our
Customers to Purchase Products    

  The demand for our
products and services is dependent upon new orders from customers operating
various public attractions. If terrorist attacks or other activities decrease
the attendance for our customers  venues, the demand or willingness of our
customers to purchase our products may decline and our revenue may decline
substantially.  

    Our Shareholders May Not Realize Certain
Opportunities Because of the Anti-Takeover Effect of State Law    

  The Utah Control Shares
Acquisition Act provides that any person who acquires 20% or more of the
outstanding voting shares of a publicly held Utah corporation will not have
voting rights with respect to the acquired shares unless a majority of the
disinterested shareholders of the corporation votes to grant such rights. This
could deprive shareholders of opportunities to realize takeover premiums for
their shares or other advantages that large accumulations of stock would
provide because anyone interested in acquiring   

9     

E S
could only do so with the cooperation of our board of directors and a majority
of disinterested shareholders.  

    Your Ability to Sell Your Stock May be
Substantially Limited    

  If we fail to meet any of
the continued listing standards of the Nasdaq National Market, our common stock
may be delisted from the Nasdaq National Market. If we are delisted from the
Nasdaq National Market, we expect our common stock will be traded on the Nasdaq
Capital Market if we meet the listing standards of that market or we will
attempt to be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board or  pink sheets  maintained by
the National Quotation Bureau, Inc. The OTC Bulletin Board and pink sheets
are generally considered less efficient markets than the Nasdaq National Market
and the Nasdaq Capital Market.  

    We May receive none or little of the
remaining $5 Million in Escrow Related to the Sale of Assets to Rockwell
Collins and the Laser Projector Agreement    

  As part of the Asset Purchase Agreement and Laser
Agreement, a total $5,000 remains in an escrow account to secure our
indemnification obligations under the Asset Purchase Agreement and our delivery
obligations under the Laser Agreement. There is no guarantee that we will
receive these funds and if Rockwell Collins becomes entitled to a penalty under
the Laser Agreement or indemnification under the Asset Purchase Agreement, we
may receive none or little of the $5,000 remaining in escrow, which will reduce
the amount of cash we have available in the future.  

  If we do not deliver a
motion-based ESLP to Rockwell Collins by December 31, 2007, Rockwell
Collins has the right to begin accelerating monthly withdrawals from the escrow
account in accordance with a formula prescribed by the Laser Agreement. Under
the formula, the monthly withdrawals will total $1,000 over the year following December 31,
2007. If we do not deliver a motion-based ESLP by December 31, 2008,
Rockwell Collins will have the right to withdraw up to an additional $2,000
from the escrow account.  

    We Continue to be Exposed to Contingent Liabilities
Relating to the Sale of our Simulation Business, Which Could Adversely Affect
Our Financial Condition    

  In connection with the
sale of our Simulation Business, we agreed to indemnify Rockwell Collins for
any losses from breaches of the representations, warranties or covenants we
made in the Asset Purchase Agreement that occur within certain periods after
the closing. We have also agreed that certain indemnification obligations will
be capped at certain amounts. For example, an indemnification claim by Rockwell
Collins could result if Rockwell Collins suffers any damages arising out of the
inaccuracy of any of our representations or if we fail to comply with a
covenant or other agreement in the Asset Purchase Agreement. In addition, we
have agreed to retain all liabilities relating to the Simulation Business that
are not being expressly assumed by Rockwell Collins, and to indemnify Rockwell
Collins for any claims or damages arising from such retained liabilities. The
payment of any such indemnification obligations could adversely impact our cash
resources following the completion of the sale of our simulator business and
our ability to pursue other opportunities, including the development of our
digital theater and laser projector businesses.  

    We May Not Be Able to Fully Integrate Spitz into
Our Operations Successfully    

  We may experience
difficulties in fully integrating Spitz s business with ours. This could result
in additional costs and loss of productivity that could materially affect our
operations and financial results.  

10     

If We are Unable to Retain Certain Key Personnel and
Hire New Highly Skilled Personnel, We May Not Be Able to Execute Our
Business Plan    

  We are substantially
dependent on the continued services of certain key personnel. These individuals
have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to the Company and
its operations. The loss of any of these individuals could harm our business.
Our business is also dependent on our ability to retain, hire and motivate
talented, highly skilled personnel. If we do not succeed in retaining and
motivating our existing key employees and in attracting new key personnel, we
may be unable to meet our business plan and as a result, our stock price may
decline.  

   ITEM 2.                    PROPERTIES   

  Our principal executive, engineering, manufacturing
and operations facilities are located in the University of Utah Research Park
in Salt Lake City, Utah, where we own three buildings totaling approximately
68,000 square feet. The buildings are located on land leased from the
University of Utah with an initial term of 40 years or longer.  

  Spitz owns and occupies an approximately 47,000
square-foot building on approximately 15.2 acres in Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania.
The property serves as collateral under Spitz s debt agreements through a
mortgage granted to First Keystone Bank.  

  We believe that these
properties are suitable for our immediate needs and we do not currently plan to
expand our facilities or relocate to other facilities.  

   ITEM 3.                    LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS   

  In the normal course of
business, we may have various legal claims and other contingent matters. We know
of no legal claims or other contingent matters outstanding that would have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, liquidity or
results of operations.  

   ITEM 4.                    SUBMISSION
OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   

  No matters were submitted to a vote of security
holders during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006.  

11  

PART II     

   ITEM 5.                    MARKET
FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES   

  Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Stock Market
under the symbol  ESCC.   On March 27,
2007, there were 666 holders of record of our common stock. Because brokers and
other institutions hold many of our shares on behalf of shareholders, we are
unable to estimate the total number of shareholders represented by these record
holders.  

  We have never paid a cash dividend on our common stock
and have used retained earnings for the operation and expansion of our business.
Currently we have an accumulated deficit. For the foreseeable future, we intend
to follow our policy of retaining any future earnings to finance the
development and growth of our business.  

  Additional information required by this item is
incorporated by reference to  the table
captioned  Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity
Compensation Plans as of December 31, 2006  in Item 12  Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters  of Part III of this annual report on Form 10-K.  

  The
table below presents the high and low bids per share on the Nasdaq Stock Market
by quarter for 2006, and 2005. The quotations reflect inter-dealer prices,
without retail mark-up, mark-down, or commission and may not necessarily
represent actual transactions.  

12     

The
following graph presents a five-year comparison of total cumulative shareholder
return on Evans   Sutherland s common stock for the period December 31,
2001 through December 31, 2006 with the total cumulative return on the (a) Russell
2000 Index,  (b) S P Electronic
Equipment   Instruments and (c) S P Aerospace  
Defense Index. As a result of the sale of the Simulation Business and our exit
from the military and defense industry, we have determined that the S P
Aerospace   Defense Index is no longer applicable to our business, and
we have determined to use the S P Electronic Equipment  
Instruments Index. In accordance with SEC rules, we are required to include
below a comparison to the historic and new industry index. The comparison
assumes the investment of $100 on December 31, 2001 in stock or index,
including reinvestment of dividends. Total shareholder returns for prior
periods are not an indication of future investment returns.  

13  

ITEM 6.                    SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA   

  The
following selected consolidated financial data for the most recent five fiscal
years ended December 31, 2006, have been derived from our consolidated
financial statements. The financial information shown as of December 31,
2006 and 2005, and for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
has been derived from our consolidated financial statements as of such dates
and for such years. The financial information shown as of December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002, and for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002,
has not been audited and reflects our previously issued financial information
reclassified to conform to our current presentation. The data presented below
should be read in conjunction with Item 7  Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and Item 8  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data  of this annual report on Form 10-K.  

14     

Quarterly Financial
Data (Unaudited)     

  The
following selected consolidated quarterly financial data for the most recent
two fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 reflects the presentation of
discontinued operations and accordingly, some amounts presented have changed
from previously reported amounts. Further information concerning the sale of
the Simulation Businesses is provided in Note 2 of Item 8  Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data  and in Item 7  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Position and Results of Operations  included in Part II of this
annual report on Form 10-K.  

   (In thousands,
except per share information)   

(1)             Net income (loss) per
share is computed independently for each of the quarters presented and
therefore may not sum to the total for the year. 

  (2)             In the fourth quarter of
2005, we recorded a gain of $8,000 on an insurance settlement and a gain of
$2,745 on the sale of a building. 

  (3)             Net loss from continuing
operations was previously reported as $1,550; the increase to the loss of $801
was due to reclassification of operating expense from continuing operations to
discontinued operations. 

  (4)             Net loss from continuing
operations was previously reported as $2,963; the increase of $389 was due to
reclassification of a gain on sale of a building from continuing operations to
discontinued operations. 

15  

ITEM 7.                    MANAGEMENT S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

  The following discussion
and analysis provides information which management believes is relevant to an
assessment and understanding of our consolidated results of operations and
financial condition. The discussion should be read in conjunction with our
consolidated financial statements and notes included in Item 8  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data  of this annual report on Form 10-K.
Information set forth in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations  includes forward-looking statements that
involve risks and uncertainties. Many factors could cause actual results to
differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. See  Forward-Looking
Statements  below and Item 1A  Risk Factors  in Part I of this annual
report on Form 10-K for additional information concerning these
items. All dollar amounts are in thousands unless otherwise indicated.  

   Executive Summary     

  The past year was a significant transition in the
existence of Evans   Sutherland. On April 28, 2006, we completed
the acquisition of Spitz, Inc. ( Spitz ) with the goal of enhancing our
capabilities to serve the digital theater markets we target. On May 26,
2006, we sold our commercial and military simulation businesses (the  Simulation
Business ) and entered into an agreement with the buyer to provide future
products and intellectual property licenses to use and sell our laser
projection systems in the Simulation Business. We realized a significant gain
on the sale of the Simulation Business which improved our financial position
and provided significant funding for the continued development of our laser
projector products. These two events resulted in a major change in our focus,
structure, and direction. Significant effort was expended during the year on
dealing with post closing and transition matters related to the sale of the
Simulation Business. These activities are largely completed along with the
associated management distraction. In 2007 the Company expects to be better
positioned to focus on current and future business opportunities.  

  We continued to make progress in the development for
our laser projector and the delivery of these projectors to our digital theater
customers; however, this continues to be a challenging endeavor. The transition
to production of laser projectors has not been completed due to delays in
delivery of certain key components and the need to refine other components. These
factors delayed the recognition of revenue from some Digital Theater customers.
Results for 2006 were negatively impacted by the delayed recognition of revenue
and additional costs for support of pre-production laser projectors that have
been delivered to initial customers. Some progress has been made on these
component issues and deliveries of improved items are beginning. We expect
these improvements will continue through 2007. We also made progress
integrating Spitz into our company and harmonizing Spitz products with the
digital theater products.  

  Late in the year we began to explore potential
opportunities for our laser technology in new markets. These activities have
shown some promising opportunities and efforts will continue in this area in
2007.  

  We expect 2007 to provide
a better opportunity to operate and assess the new business in a steady state.
The ongoing activities will be focused on completion of the laser projector and
assuring timely customer deliveries. Parallel with product development
activities will be efforts aimed at identifying opportunities for this
technology in new markets. The success of our new technology will also ensure
that we maintain our lead and provide growth opportunities in our traditional
digital theater markets. Improving financial performance and reducing costs,
where practicable, are key areas of management focus.  

16     

Acquisition of
Spitz, Inc.     

  On April 28, 2006,
the Company completed the acquisition of Spitz, Inc. ( Spitz ) by
acquiring all outstanding shares of Spitz common stock from Transnational
Industries, Inc. ( Transnational ) pursuant to a stock purchase agreement
(the  Stock Purchase Agreement ), dated as of February 7, 2006, by and
between the Company and Transnational. Consideration under the Stock Purchase
Agreement consisted of 412,500 unregistered shares of the Company s Common
Stock, $0.20 par value, subject to a post-closing share adjustment depending on
the average trading price of the Company s common stock for the 60-day
period prior to registration of the shares issued at closing. Pursuant to a
Registration Rights Agreement between the Company, Spitz, and Transnational,
E S was required to use its best efforts to register those shares of stock
issued as consideration for the outstanding stock of Spitz. Registration of the
shares issued to Transnational became effective on November 9, 2006 and
the Company issued an additional 84,948 shares in accordance with the
post-closing adjustment. Based on the average closing price of the Company s
common stock for the period two days prior and two days after the day the
agreement was announced, the value of the total shares issued is $2,814. Transaction
costs were $70 and stock registration costs were $30. The purchase price was
determined in arms-length negotiations between the Company and Transnational
and we believe it is a nontaxable transaction. The Company plans to continue to
operate Spitz as a wholly owned subsidiary. Spitz designs, manufactures and
supports visual systems for planetariums, science centers and entertainment
venues and provides unique domes and similarly shaped structures for
specialized architectural applications.  

   Sale of Simulation
Business     

  On May 26, 2006, we sold substantially all of the
assets and certain liabilities primarily related to our commercial and military
simulation businesses and related service operations (the  Simulation Business )
to certain subsidiaries of Rockwell Collins, Inc., a Delaware corporation
( Rockwell Collins ), pursuant to an asset purchase agreement (the  Asset
Purchase Agreement ), dated as of February 7, 2006, by and between the
Company and Rockwell Collins. In connection with the completion of the sale of
the Simulation Business, on May 26, 2006 the Company entered into a laser
projection systems agreement (the  Laser Agreement ) with Rockwell Collins and
Rockwell Collins Simulation   Training Solutions LLC, pursuant to
which the Company has agreed to provide, and grant exclusive and non-exclusive
intellectual property licenses to use and sell, laser projection systems in
connection with the Simulation Business and certain related businesses of
Rockwell Collins. The transaction contemplated by the Asset Purchase Agreement
and the Laser Agreement (the  Transaction ) was approved by the Company s
shareholders at a combined annual and special meeting of shareholders held on May 25,
2006.  

  The aggregate consideration contemplated in the
Transaction was $71,500 in cash, consisting of the $66,500 purchase price under
the Asset Purchase Agreement (the  Asset Purchase Price ) for the assets
primarily related to the Simulation Business and $5,000 under the Laser
Agreement. On May 26, 2006, the closing of the sale of the Simulation
Business, Rockwell Collins paid the Company $59,500 under the terms of the
Asset Purchase Agreement, and deposited $10,000 (consisting of the remaining
$7,000 of the Asset Purchase Price and $3,000 under the Laser Agreement) in
escrow pursuant to an escrow agreement (the  Escrow Agreement ), dated as of May 26,
2006, by and between the Company, Rockwell Collins and U.S. Bank National
Association, as escrow agent. The Laser Agreement requires Rockwell Collins to
pay the remaining $2,000 of consideration in the Transaction directly to the
Company upon the completion of certain performance milestones by the Company. Under
the terms of the Escrow Agreement, the deposited amount will be held in escrow
to secure (i) any post-closing reduction in the Asset Purchase Price under
the Asset Purchase Agreement, (ii) the Company s indemnification obligations
under the Asset Purchase Agreement and (iii) the Company s obligations
(not to exceed $3,000 of the escrowed funds) to meet specified milestones under
the Laser Agreement. The escrowed funds will be released in installments as set
forth in the Escrow Agreement, subject to the passage of time and the Company   

17     

fulfilling requirements of
the Escrow Agreement. In connection with the sale of our Simulation Business,
we agreed to indemnify Rockwell Collins for any losses from breaches of the
representations, warranties or covenants we made in the Asset Purchase
Agreement that occur within certain periods after the closing.  

  The Asset Purchase Agreement provides for an
adjustment to the Asset Purchase Price based on the value, calculated in
accordance with the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, of the net assets
delivered at the closing date (the  Closing Net Assets ). Based on the value of
the Closing Net Assets calculated by the Company and Rockwell Collins under the
procedures set forth in the Asset Purchase Agreement, the Asset Purchase Price
has been adjusted by $4,800 resulting in 
an  adjusted Asset Purchase Price
of $61,700. In accordance with the terms of the Escrow Agreement, in March 2007,
$200 of the $7,000 held for the Asset Purchase Price was released to the
Company and $4,800 was released to Rockwell Collins. The remaining $2,000 held
for the Asset Purchase Price is scheduled to be released under the Escrow
Agreement on July 1, 2007.  

  As of December 31, 2006, the Company has recorded
proceeds of $59,700 from the Transaction, representing the funds it received
through March 2007. We will record additional gain on the Transaction when
and to the extent that the remaining amounts to be paid by Rockwell Collins and
the remaining amounts held in escrow are released to the Company.  

  The sale of assets by the
Company pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement was a taxable transaction for
income tax purposes. Accordingly, we recognized a gain with respect to the sale
of assets pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement in an amount equal to the
difference between the amount of the consideration received for each asset over
the adjusted tax basis in the asset sold. As all tax information is not yet
available we have made estimates for certain items in computing the tax gain
until final information becomes available. Although the asset sale resulted in
taxable gain to the Company, a substantial portion of the taxable gain will be
offset by current year losses from operations, and available net operating loss
and tax credit carryforwards. As a result in 2006 we have recorded a net gain
of $35,643 from the sale of the Simulation Business.  

   Results of
Operations     

    Consolidated Sales    

  The
following table summarizes our consolidated sales for fiscal year:  

Sales remained relatively flat from 2005 to 2006
decreasing less than 1%. This resulted from a decrease in revenue from the
Evans   Sutherland Laser Projector (ESLP) which was mostly offset by
the revenue reported by Spitz since being acquired on April 28, 2006. The
decrease in ESLP revenue was caused by supply delays relating to certain system
components, the need to refine other components, and the resulting unexpected
increases in project costs which negatively impacted revenue recognition on
percent complete contracts. Efforts continue to resolve the issues related to
delivery of the ESLP and we expect ESLP revenue to recover in 2007, although
there is no assurance that we will achieve the desired results.  

  Sales in 2005 increased 59% from 2004. This was
primarily the result of revenue on the ESLP.  

  While our overall sales
decreased in 2006, year end backlog increased by 23% from $16,548 to $20,408.
The increase in the backlog was attributable to backlog acquired through Spitz.
New bookings started strong in 2007 for all digital theater products as well as
Spitz domes. This is expected to lead to higher sales levels in 2007; however,
much will depend on the success of the ESLP.  

18     

Gross Margin    

  The
following table summarizes our gross margin and the percentage to total sales
during fiscal year:  

The decrease in gross
margin from 2005 to 2006 was driven primarily by additional costs to complete
ongoing ESLP projects that are accounted for under the percentage of completion
method. Also, 2006 gross margin was reduced by lower than normal gross margin
due to an increase in under absorbed overhead from lower manufacturing volume. The
increase in gross margin from 2004 to 2005 was attributable to a higher volume
of successful digital theater projects.  

    Selling, General  
Administrative Expenses    

SG A expenses
increased 65% from 2006 compared to 2005 due primarily to $1,394 of charges
related to the separation agreement entered into with our prior Chief Executive
Officer, $1,650 in increases due to the acquisition of Spitz and $982 of
charges related to options being expensed under Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123(R) (see discussion of stock compensation
in Note 1  Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
of Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  in this annual report
on Form 10-K. No such costs were incurred in the 2005. SG A
expenses increased 18% from 2005 compared to 2004 due to increased legal fees
due to the sale of the Simulation Business of $1,462 partially offset by
collection of a $435 receivable we had previously reserved. We expect SG A
to run about 13% lower in 2007 as a result of reductions in the overall
corporate infrastructure.  

    Research and
Development Expenses    

R D expense increased
25% in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to $1,720 of expense under a
contract for outside R D services related to the laser projector. R D
expenses increased 34% in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to the
consumption of an additional $1,144 of laser projector materials over the prior
year, $310 of expense under a contract for outside R D services related to
the laser projector and $528 increase in labor over 2004. We expect R D expense
to increase about 15% in 2007 due to efforts to improve and expand the
capabilities of our laser projection technology with the goal of reaching new
markets.  

    Gains    

  The
following table summarizes other accounting gains during fiscal year:  

19     

In 2004, we recognized
additional gain on the sale of assets of our REALimage Solutions Group that
closed in 2002. In 2005, we recognized a gain on the sale of a building and its
related asset group of $2,745. In 2006, we adjusted the gain on the sale of a
building recognized in 2005 for additional costs incurred in 2006.  

    Other Income and Expense    

  The
following table summarizes our other income and expense during fiscal year:  

Interest income in 2006
increased $895 compared to 2005 due to the significant increase of cash we
received from the proceeds of the sale of the Simulation Business. Interest
expense in 2006 increased $211 compared to 2005, primarily due to the interest
expense from Spitz mortgage note and line of credit. In 2006, other expense
included $366 of loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, banking
fees of $177 and proceeds from class action lawsuit of $23. In 2005 other
income included gain on sale of a marketable security of $691, loss on the
write-down of a non-marketable security of $37, loss on disposal of property,
plant and equipment of $28, proceeds from class action lawsuit of $23 and
banking fees of $33. In 2004 other income included a gain on disposal of
property, plant and equipment of $105.  

    Income Taxes    

  Income
tax (expense) consisted of the following:  

The income tax expense of
$372 for 2006 is primarily attributable to estimated tax on the gain from the
sale of the Simulation Business. The income tax benefit of $430 for 2005 is primarily
attributable to favorable resolution of certain income tax contingencies. The
income tax expense of $112 for 2004 is primarily attributable to foreign income
taxes.  

   Liquidity and
Capital Resources     

  Summary
information concerning our financial position as of fiscal year-end:  

20  

Outlook    

  In 2006, we significantly improved our liquidity and
maintained our ability to issue letters of credit, mainly due to proceeds from
the sale of the Simulation Business.  

  In July 2007, we expect to receive additional
proceeds escrowed from the sale of the Simulation Business. We expect these
escrowed proceeds and our existing cash to fund our cash requirements in 2007. Receipt
of these escrowed funds is subject to our agreement to indemnify Rockwell
Collins for any losses from breaches of the representations, warranties or
covenants we made in the Asset Purchase Agreement that occur within the escrow
period.  

  Circumstances that could materially affect liquidity
in 2007 include, but are not limited to: (i) failure to receive the
remaining escrowed funds from the sale of the Simulation Business (ii) successfully
delivering new technologies and products, (iii) meeting 2007 forecasted
sales levels, and (iv) our ability to continue to reduce costs and
expenses.  

  We expect cash  from operations and  the sale of the Simulation Business to fund
our planned needs in the short term as we invest in research and development
related to our laser projector products. For the long term, we believe that
improved cash from operations will fund our planned needs. However, we operate
in a rapidly evolving and often unpredictable business environment that may
change the timing or amount of expected future cash receipts and expenditures.
Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our sources of funds will be
sufficient to meet our liquidity needs or that we will not be required to raise
additional funds to meet those needs, including future business expansion,
through the sale of equity or debt securities or from credit facilities with
lending institutions.  

    Cash Flow    

Cash and cash equivalents
increased $943 to $15,549 during fiscal year 2006, primarily as a result of
cash provided by operating activities. Cash of $15,549 as of December 31,
2006 was due to cash proceeds from the sale of the Simulation Business of
$59,093 less $18,015 for the redemption of convertible subordinated notes,
$11,348 of funding for the pension plan, and $5,550 to establish a trust to
fund future SERP benefit payments. Cash of $14,606 as of December 31,
2005, was due to the sale of a building which had been held for sale and the
receipt of an insurance settlement and the release of additional cash that was
restricted at the end of 2004.  

   Operating
Activities   

  Operating activities provided $21,345 of cash during 2006.
This resulted primarily from net cash provided by discontinued operations of
$48,719. Net cash used by continuing operating activities was $27,374, which is
primarily attributable to the following: the decrease in prepaid pension and
retirement asset of $9,178  and the
increase in the accrued pension and retirement liability of $9,230 (which
reflected $11,348 of funding for the pension plan and $5,550 of funding  for the SERP with proceeds from the sale of
the Simulation Business), net loss from continuing operations of $6,229
(decreased for non-cash items of $3,251), and a decrease in working capital of
$2,737. Accounts receivable increased due to several large contract billings
outstanding as of the end of 2006. Inventories have increased due to costs
incurred on   

21     

several customer contracts
at the end of the year and an increase in purchases of laser projector
components in 2006. Accounts payable decreased in 2006 due to non-recurring
accounts payable outstanding at 2005 including legal fees related to the sale
of the Simulation Business, the net settlement of a sales tax audit and
significant contract costs incurred at the end of 2005. Accrued liabilities
increased primarily due to accrued contractual damages and accrued severance for
the former CEO. Customer deposits also increased in 2006 due to the timing of
contract payments received during the year.  

  Operating activities used $467 of cash during 2005,
primarily due to $668 of cash provided by discontinued operating activities
offset by net cash used in continuing operating activities of $1,135. Net cash
used in continuing operating activities was primarily due to net loss from
continuing operations of $5,766 (increased for non-cash items of $2,243), an
increase in accrued pension and retirement liabilities of $940 due to
recognition of net periodic pension cost, and an increase in working capital of
$3,691. Accounts receivable decreased due to improved collections. Inventories
increased due to purchases related to our ESLP for deliveries to our digital
theater customers that occurred in 2006. Net costs and estimated earnings in
excess of billings on uncompleted contracts increased due to decreased revenue
recognition on percent complete contracts compared to billings on percent complete
contracts. Customer deposits increased due to the excess of cash received on
completed contracts compared to revenue recognized during the period.  

  Operating activities used
$3,541 of cash during 2004 due to $1,740 of cash provided by discontinued operating
activities offset by net cash used in continuing operating activities of $5,281.
Net cash used in continuing operating activities was primarily due to net loss
from continuing operations of $6,252 (decreased for non-cash items of $1,025),
an increase in accrued pension and retirement liabilities of $702 due to
recognition of net periodic pension cost, and an increase in working capital of
$269. Accounts receivable increased due to several large contract billings
outstanding as of the end of 2004. Inventory decreased due to timing of
shipments on customer contracts and a decrease in purchases. Net costs and
estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts decreased due
to increased revenue recognition on percent complete contracts compared to
billings on percent complete contracts. Prepaid expenses and deposits decreased
due to receipt of a reimbursable settlement charge in 2004 recorded in prepaids
in  2003. Accounts payable increased due
to an increase in certain general and administrative expenses as well as
material purchases at the end of 2004. Accrued liabilities decreased due to the
satisfaction of an accrued settlement fee related to the sale of assets in
2002, a decrease in the executive savings plan liability of $745, a decrease in
accrued commissions and a decrease in a liability related to an operating
lease. Customer deposits increased due to the excess of cash received on
completed contracts compared to revenue recognized during the period.  

   Investing
Activities   

  Investing activities used $1,017 of cash during 2006
primarily due to purchases of property, plant and equipment of $2,024,
partially offset by cash provided by discontinued investing activities of
$1,056. The purchases of property, plan and equipment of $2,024 included
acquisition of information technology infrastructure and software and
remodeling of the new corporate offices.  

  Investing activities provided $4,830 of cash during
2005. This resulted primarily from the sale of one of our office buildings for
proceeds of $6,277, as well as proceeds from the sale of a marketable security
of $778. These cash inflows were partly offset by property, plant and equipment
purchases of $1,417 and cash used by discontinued investing activities of $650.  

  Investing activities provided
$11,535 of cash during 2004. This resulted primarily from cash provided by
discontinued investing activities of $11,459. Also, we sold an investment for
$633 in cash, offset by purchases of property, plant and equipment of $620.  

22     

Financing
Activities   

  Financing activities used $19,385 of cash during 2006
primarily due to discontinued financing activities of $18,015, which reflects
the redemption of convertible subordinated notes with proceeds from the sale of
the Simulation Business. Other financing activities included $1,525 of net
repayments on the line of credit and long-term debt partially offset by $251 of
proceeds of common stock from the exercise of stock options.  

  Financing activities provided $96 of proceeds from
issuance of common stock due to the exercise of stock options during 2005.  

  Financing activities used
$7,562 of cash during 2004 primarily due to the pay down of our lines of credit
during 2004.  

    Credit
Facilities    

  On April 28, 2006, Spitz entered into a Line of
Credit Agreement (the  Credit Agreement ) and a Line of Credit Note (the  Note )
with a commercial bank continuing a $3,000 line of credit for working capital
purposes, with E S executing as a co-borrower and guarantor of both
agreements. Under the Note, the outstanding balance will bear a per annum
interest rate of one-half percent (0.5%) above the Wall Street Prime rate and
the Note matures June 30, 2007. The Note is secured by Spitz real and
personal property, a guaranty agreement (the  Guaranty Agreement ) entered into
by E S on April 28, 2006, and a pledge agreement (the  Pledge
Agreement ) entered into by E S and the commercial bank on April 28,
2006. Two business days after entering into the Credit Agreement, the maximum
line of credit decreased to $2,500 per the Credit Agreement. Under the Credit
Agreement, Spitz is required to, among other terms and conditions: maintain a
minimum tangible net worth of $1,700, determined quarterly; maintain a $200
average daily balance, measured quarterly, in its deposit accounts; and
maintain an aggregate daily balance of Spitz deposit accounts with the
commercial bank of not less than $100 for any consecutive five day period.
Under the Guaranty Agreement, E S has guaranteed the payment and
performance of the conditions of the Note. Under the Pledge Agreement E S
has granted to the commercial bank a first priority security interest and lien
in and to all of the outstanding shares of Spitz common stock to secure the
Note. On July 28, 2006, the Credit Agreement was modified. Among other
changes, the maximum line of credit was reduced to $1,100; the first
measurement date of the Tangible Net Worth covenant was moved to September 29,
2006; and amounts E S loans to Spitz are not counted in the Tangible Net
Worth covenant. As of December 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance
with the tangible net worth covenant and other covenants of the line of credit.
 As of December 31, 2006, the
outstanding balance of the line of credit was $700.  

  The ability to issue letters of credit and bank
guarantees is important to our business as sales in countries other than in
North America and Western Europe have increased. In many countries, letters of
credit and bank guarantees are required as part of all sales contract. Letters
of credit and bank guarantees are issued to ensure our performance to third
parties.  

  The Company has a finance arrangement which
facilitates the issuance of letters of credit and bank guarantees. Under the
terms of the arrangement, we are required to maintain a balance in a specific
cash account equal to or greater than the outstanding value of all letters of
credit issued, plus other amounts necessary to adequately secure our
obligations with the financial institution. The arrangement provides a first
priority security interest in the specific cash account. Certain of the terms
of the arrangement prohibit us from creating, incurring, assuming or permitting
to exist any indebtedness or liabilities resulting from borrowings, loans or
advances; merging into, consolidating with any other entity, or making any
substantial change in the nature of our business; or making new loans or
advances to or investments in any other entity without prior written consent
from the financial institution. We received written consent from the financial
institution for both the acquisition and disposition completed in the second
quarter of 2006. In addition,   

23     

Spitz has the capability
of issuing letters of credit through their financial institution which requires
a cash-secured guarantee.  

  As of December 31,
2006, we had outstanding letters of credit and bank guarantees of $633. Letters
of credit that expire in 2007 total $633.  

    Mortgage Note    

  As of December 31,
2006 there was a $2,930 obligation under a mortgage note payable ( Mortgage
Note ) issued on January 14, 2004 by Spitz. The Mortgage Note requires
repayment in monthly installments of principal and interest over twenty years.
The monthly installment for the first three years was $23 and included interest
at 5.75% per annum. On January 14, 2007 and each third year thereafter, the
interest rate will be adjusted to the greater of 5.75% or 3% over the
Three-Year Constant Maturity Treasury Rate published by the United States
Federal Reserve ( 3YCMT ). The 3YCMT as of January 14, 2007 was 4.83%. The
monthly installment will be recalculated on the first month following a change
in the interest rate. The recalculated monthly installment will be equal to the
monthly installment sufficient to repay the principal balance, as of the date
of the change in the interest rate, over the remaining portion of the original
twenty-year term. As of February 2007, the new monthly installment amount
is $26.The Mortgage Note is secured by the real property acquired with the
proceeds of the note pursuant to a Mortgage and Security Agreement. The
Mortgage Note and Credit Agreement contain cross default provisions whereby the
default of either agreement will result in the default of both agreements. On March 30,
2007, E S executed a Guarantee of Spitz  obligation under the Mortgage Note
in consideration for the replacement of the requirement of annual audited
financial statements of Spitz under the Mortgage Note and Credit Agreement with
the annual audited financial statements of E S.  

    6%
Convertible Subordinated Debentures    

  As of December 31,
2005, there was $18,015 of 6% Convertible Subordinated Debentures outstanding
(the  6% Debentures ), classified as long-term liabilities related to
discontinued operations. The 6% Debentures, due in 2012, were unsecured and
were convertible at each bondholder s option into shares of our common stock at
a conversion price of $42.10 per share for an aggregate of 428,000 shares of
our common stock if all outstanding 6% Debentures were converted, subject to
adjustment. Prior to the sale of the Simulation Business, the 6% Debentures
were redeemable at our option, in whole or in part, at par. The 6% Debentures
required redemption upon the sale of the Simulation Business. Accordingly, all
of the 6% Debentures were redeemed on June 26, 2006.  

    Rental Guarantees    

  In December 2005,
E S sold a building with a net book value of $3,820, for proceeds of
$6,277, net of closing costs. We
recognized a gain on the sale of $2,745 in 2005. As part of the sale, we
entered into a 21 month lease agreement with the buyer obligating us to make certain monthly payments through September 2007
depending on the remaining space available for lease in the building sold. Evans  
Sutherland is required to pay a monthly pro rata share of operating expenses
not to exceed $319 over the twenty-one month lease term. As of December 31, 2006, we had a
maximum remaining guarantee related to these obligations of $468 recorded as an
accrued liability. The maximum rental guarantee may decrease as available space
is leased, based on terms of the rental guarantee. To the extent the maximum
rental guarantee is reduced, additional gain will be realized.  

24     

Other    

  In 2007, we expect capital expenditures to be slightly
less than 2006, or approximately $1,500 to $2,000. There were no material
capital expenditure commitments at the end of 2006, nor do we anticipate any
over the next several years.  

  Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase
of 1,600,000 shares of our common stock. As of March 16, 2007, 463,500
shares remained available for repurchase under the plans approved by the Board
of Directors. No shares were repurchased during 2006, 2005, or 2004. Stock may
be acquired on the open market or through negotiated transactions depending on
market conditions, share price and other factors.  

  We also maintain trade credit arrangements with
certain of our suppliers. The unavailability of a significant portion of, or
the loss of, these trade credit arrangements from suppliers would have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations.  

  If we were unable to make timely deliveries of
products pursuant to the terms of various agreements with third parties or
certain of our contracts were adversely impacted for failure to meet delivery
requirements, we may be unable to meet our anticipated working capital needs,
routine capital expenditures, and current debt service obligations on a
short-term and long-term basis.  

  We believe our existing
cash, restricted cash, letter of credit availability under our current
arrangement, and expected cash from future operations will be sufficient to
meet our anticipated working capital needs, routine capital expenditures and
current debt service obligations. At December 31, 2006, our total
indebtedness was $3,638 consisting of $2,938 due on a mortgage note and $700
due on a line of credit agreement. Our cash and restricted cash, subject to
various restrictions set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K,
are available for working capital needs, capital expenditures, strategic
investments, mergers and acquisitions, stock repurchases and other potential
cash needs as they may arise  

    Effects
of Inflation    

  The effects of inflation
were not considered material during fiscal years 2006, 2005, or 2004, and are
not expected to be material for fiscal year 2007.  

   Contractual
Obligations     

  The
impact that our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2006 are
expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods is as
follows:  

(1)             Amounts represent the
expected cash payments on our long-term debt, including interest payments, and
do not include any fair value adjustments. 

  (2)             The majority of the
operating lease obligations are land leases for periods up to 40 years on the
land underlying our buildings. Our maximum rental guarantee payments are
included in operating lease obligations. 

25     

(3)             Purchase
obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are
enforceable and legally binding on E S and that specify all significant
terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased and the
approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements
that are cancelable without penalty. 

   Application of
Critical Accounting Estimates     

  The application of the
accounting estimates discussed below are considered by management to be
critical to an understanding of our financial statements. Their application
places significant demands on management s judgment, with financial reporting
results relying on estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently
uncertain. Specific risks for these critical accounting estimates are described
in the following paragraphs. A summary of significant accounting policies can
be found in Note 1  Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies  of Item 8  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  in this
annual report on Form 10-K. For all of these policies, management
cautions that future results rarely develop exactly as forecast, and the best
estimates routinely require adjustment.  

    Revenue
Recognition    

  Revenue from long-term
contracts requiring significant production, modification and customization is
recorded using the percentage-of-completion method. This method uses the ratio
of costs incurred to management s estimate of total anticipated costs. Our
estimates of total costs include assumptions, such as man-hours to complete,
estimated materials cost, and estimates of other direct and indirect costs. Actual
results may vary significantly from our estimates. If the actual costs are
higher than management s anticipated total costs, then an adjustment is
required to reduce the previously recognized revenue as the ratio of costs
incurred to management s estimate was overstated. If actual costs are lower
than management s anticipated total costs, then an adjustment is required to
increase the previously recognized revenue as the ratio of costs incurred to
management s estimate is understated. Adjustments for revisions of previous
estimates are made in the period they become known.  

    Costs and Estimated Earnings in Excess of Billings on
Uncompleted Contracts and Billings in Excess of Costs and Estimated Earnings on
Uncompleted Contracts      

  Billings on uncompleted
long-term contracts may be greater than or less than incurred costs and
estimated earnings. As a result, these differences are recorded as an asset or
liability on the balance sheet. Since revenue recognized on these long-term
contracts includes management s estimates of total anticipated costs, the
amounts in costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted
contracts and billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted
contracts also include these estimates.  

    Inventories    

  Inventory includes
materials at standard costs, which approximates average costs, as well as
inventoried costs on programs (including material, labor, subcontracting costs,
as well as an allocation of indirect costs). We periodically review inventories
for excess supply, obsolescence, and valuations above estimated realizable
amounts, and then provide a reserve we consider sufficient to cover these items.
Reserve adequacy is based on estimates of future sales, product pricing, and
requirements to complete projects. Revisions of these estimates would result in
adjustments to our operating results.  

    Allowance
for Doubtful Accounts    

  We specifically analyze
accounts receivable and consider historical experience, customer
creditworthiness, facts and circumstances specific to outstanding balances,
current economic trends, and   

26     

payment
term changes when evaluating adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. Changes
in these factors could result in material adjustments to the expense recognized
for bad debts.  

    Income
Taxes    

  As part of the process of
preparing our consolidated financial statements we are required to estimate our
actual income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This
involves estimating our actual current tax exposure together with assessing
temporary differences resulting from differing treatments of items, such as
accrued liabilities, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result
in deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our
consolidated balance sheets. We must then assess the likelihood that our
deferred income tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to
the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a
valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or
increase or decrease this allowance in a period, we must include a
corresponding adjustment within the income tax provision in the statement of
operations. Significant judgment by management is required to determine our
provision for income taxes, our deferred income tax assets and liabilities and
any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred income tax assets.  

    Impairment
of Long- Lived Assets    

  Long-lived assets are reviewed
for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the book value
of an asset may not be fully recoverable. When this occurs, we review the value
assigned to long-lived assets by analyzing the anticipated, undiscounted cash
flows they generate. When the expected future undiscounted cash flows from
these assets do not exceed their carrying balances, we determine the estimated
fair value of such assets. The amount of impairment recognized is the amount by
which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds their estimated fair value. Assets
held for sale are reported at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value
less costs to sell.  

    Straight
Line Rent and Contingent Obligation    

  We recognize scheduled
rent increases on a straight-line basis over the lease term, which may include
optional lease renewal terms, and deferred rent income and expense is
recognized to reflect the difference between the rent paid or received in the
current period and the calculated straight-line amount.  

   Recent Accounting
Pronouncements     

  In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board ( FASB ) issued FASB Interpretation Number 48 ( FIN 48 ),  Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. 
The interpretation contains a two step approach to recognizing and measuring
uncertain tax positions accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 109. The
first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if
the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the
position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or
litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as
the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate
settlement. The provisions are effective for the Company beginning in the first
quarter of 2007. The Company is evaluating the impact of FIN 48 on its
consolidated financial statements.  

  In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 157 ( SFAS No. 157 ),  Fair Value
Measurements.  SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework
for measuring fair value in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles ( GAAP ) and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This
statement will be adopted by the Company for its fiscal years beginning after November 15,
2007 and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is currently
evaluating the impact of SFAS No. 157 on its consolidated financial
statements.  

27     

In September 2006,
the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158 ( SFAS
No. 158 ),  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and
132-R.   SFAS No. 158 requires
employers to recognize on their balance sheets the funded status of pension and
other postretirement benefit plans as of the end of the fiscal year ending
after December 15, 2006, for public companies. SFAS No. 158 requires
that companies recognize actuarial gains and losses, prior service costs, and
any remaining transition amounts from the initial application of Statements 87
and 106 when recognizing a plan s funded status, with the offset to accumulated
other comprehensive income. SFAS No. 158 will also require fiscal-year-end
measurements of plan assets and benefit obligations, eliminating the use of
earlier measurement dates currently permissible. The new measurement-date
requirement will not be effective until fiscal years ending after December 15,
2008. The Company has adopted the provisions of this statement as of December 31,
2006. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated
financial statements.  

   Forward-Looking
Statements     

  The foregoing contains  forward-looking statements 
within the meaning of that term in Section 27A of the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, including among others, those statements preceded by, followed by or
including the words  estimates,   believes,   expects,   plans,   projects, 
and similar expressions.  

  These forward
looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following statements:  

             Our
belief that we will continue to receive orders for sales of our laser
projectors to Rockwell Collins 

             Our
belief that the acquisition of Spitz and the continued success of our ESLP
product will allow us to gain market share in digital theaters and that we may
be able to grow the Spitz dome business in 2007 and future years. 

             Our
belief that our range of visual systems and services at various price and
performance levels, our research and development investments and capabilities,
and our ability to design and manufacture value-added visual systems will enable
us to compete effectively. 

             Our
belief that the ESLP also has application to other markets in the future where
ultra-high resolution, high efficiency, excellent image quality, and low
life-cycle cost are important considerations, which will ultimately result in
future revenues. 

             Our
belief that our products are performing well, that we will meet all our
delivery requirements, and as a result we will incur no damages or penalties
for late deliveries in 2007. 

             Our
belief that capital expenditures during 2007 will be less than the capital
expenditures incurred during 2006. 

             Our
belief there is no consistent, inherent seasonal pattern to our business. 

             Our
belief that any inherent risk that may exist in our foreign operations is not
material. 

             Our
belief that our properties are suitable for our immediate needs. 

             Our
belief that the ultimate disposition of any legal claims asserted against us or
other contingent matters will not have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. 

             Our
belief that we will perform under the conditions of our letters of credit and
therefore incur no losses with respect to these letters of credit in 2007 or
future years. 

28     

Our
belief that the effects of inflation will not be material for fiscal year 2007. 

             Our
belief that any inherent risk that may exist in our in our foreign transactions
is not material. 

             Our
belief that approximately 85% of our backlog will be converted to sales in
2007. 

             Our
belief that we will see improvements in our 2007 orders. 

             Our
belief that our SG A expenses will be reduced from their 2006 levels. 

             Our
belief that the sale of the Simulation Business and the Spitz transactions will
materially affect our future financial performance and position as we have sold
a significant percentage of operational assets related to the Simulation
Business and acquired additional operational assets related to the digital
theater simulation group. 

             Our
belief that the net cash from the sale of the Simulation Business along with
cash from operations will fund our requirements in 2007. 

             Our
belief that for years beyond 2007 cash from operations and net cash from the
sale to Rockwell Collins will fund our planned needs in the short term as we
invest in research and development related to our laser projector products and
our belief that for the long term, our cash from operations will fund our
planned needs. 

             Our
belief that existing cash, restricted cash, letter of credit availability under
our current arrangement, and expected cash from future operations will be
sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital needs, routine capital
expenditures and current debt service obligations. 

  Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to
risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified. Future
events and actual results could differ materially from those set forth in,
contemplated by, or underlying the forward-looking statements. Our actual
results could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. In
addition to the other risks described in Item 1A  Risk Factors  in Part I
of this annual report on Form 10-K, important factors to consider in
evaluating such forward-looking statements include risks of product demand,
market acceptance, economic conditions, competitive products and pricing,
difficulties in product development, and product delays. In light of these
risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the events contemplated
by the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report will, in
fact, occur.  

29  

ITEM 7A.   QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK     

  The principal market risks to which we are exposed are
changes in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in interest rates. Foreign
sales accounted for approximately 53%, 38%, and 66% of total sales in 2006,
2005 and 2004, respectively. Our foreign sales are concentrated in the United
Kingdom, Europe, Asia and North America (excluding the United States). In
general, we enter into sale agreements with our foreign customers denominated in
U.S. dollars. Foreign currency purchase and sale contracts may be entered into
for periods consistent with related underlying exposures and do not constitute
positions independent of those exposures. We do not enter into foreign currency
contracts for trading purposes and do not use leveraged contracts. As of December 31,
2006, we had sales contracts in Euros with approximately     112
remaining to collect. 

30  

ITEM 8.                    FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   

   CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   
(In thousands, except share data)   

See notes to consolidated financial statements.     31  

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS   
(In thousands, except per share data)   

See notes to consolidated financial statements.     32  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
STOCKHOLDERS    

   EQUITY
(DEFICIT) AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)   

   (In thousands)   

See notes to consolidated financial statements.     33  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   
(In thousands)   

See notes to consolidated financial statements.     34  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

   All dollar amounts
are in thousands unless otherwise indicated.   

   Note 1 Nature of
Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

    Nature of
Operations    

  Evans  
Sutherland Computer Corporation, referred to in these notes as  Evans  
Sutherland,   E S,   we,   us,   our  or the  Company,  produces visual
systems used to rapidly and accurately display images. We design, manufacture,
market and support our visual systems for various applications, including
planetariums, science centers and entertainment venues. Our products and
solutions range from the visual systems generated by a desktop PC to what we
believe are the most advanced visual systems in the world. The Company operates
as one segment, which is the visual simulation market.  

    Basis of
Presentation    

  Evans  
Sutherland s fiscal year ends on December 31. The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Evans   Sutherland and its wholly
owned subsidiaries. All inter-company accounts and transactions have been
eliminated in consolidation.  

    Use of
Estimates    

  The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying
notes. The accounting estimates that require management s most difficult and
subjective judgments include revenue recognition based on the percentage-of
completion method, inventory reserves, accruals for liquidated damages and late
penalties, allowance for doubtful accounts, income tax valuation allowance,
restructuring charges, impairment of long-lived assets, pension and retirement
obligations and useful lives of depreciable assets. Actual results could differ
from those estimates.  

    Cash and
Cash Equivalents    

  The Company considers all
highly liquid investments with original maturities of three or fewer months to
be cash equivalents. The Company maintains cash balances in bank accounts that,
at times, may exceed federally insured limits. The Company has not experienced
any losses in these accounts and believes it is not exposed to any significant
risk with respect to cash. As of December 31, 2006, cash deposits exceeded
the federally insured limits by approximately $15,874.  

    Restricted
Cash    

  Restricted cash that
guarantees issued letters of credit that mature or expire within one year is
reported as a current asset. Restricted cash that guarantees issued letters of
credit that mature or expire in more than one year are reported as long-term
other assets. Long-term restricted cash at December 31, 2006 and 2005 was
$0 and $396, respectively.  

    Trade
Accounts Receivable    

  In the normal course of business, we provide unsecured
credit terms to our customers. Accordingly, we maintain an allowance for
doubtful accounts for possible losses on uncollectible accounts receivable. We routinely analyze accounts receivable and
costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings, and consider history,
customer creditworthiness, facts and circumstances specific to outstanding
balances,   

35     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

current
economic trends, and payment term changes when evaluating adequacy of the
allowance for doubtful accounts. Changes in these factors could result in
material differences to bad debt expense. Past due balances are reviewed
individually for collectibility.  

  Uncollectible accounts receivable are charged against
the allowance for doubtful accounts only after exhaustive efforts have been
made to collect and with management s approval.  

  The
table below represents changes in our allowance for doubtful receivables during
fiscal year:  

Inventories    

  Inventory includes materials at standard costs, which
approximate average costs, as well as inventoried costs on programs and
long-term contracts. Inventoried costs include material, direct engineering and
production costs, and applicable overhead, not in excess of estimated
realizable value. Spare parts and general stock materials are stated at cost
not in excess of realizable value. We periodically review inventories for
excess supply, obsolescence, and valuations above estimated realizable amounts,
and provide a reserve we consider sufficient to cover these items. Revisions of
these estimates could result in the need for adjustments.  

  Inventories
net of reserves at fiscal year-end were as follows:  

36     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Property,
Plant and Equipment    

  Property,
plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is computed using the
straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the related assets.
Expenditures that materially increase values or capacities or extend useful
lives of property and equipment are capitalized. Routine maintenance, repairs
and renewal costs are expensed as incurred. When property is retired or
otherwise disposed of, the book value of the property is removed from the fixed
assets and the related accumulated depreciation accounts. Depreciation is
included in cost of sales, research and development or selling, general and
administrative expenses depending on the nature of the asset. The cost and
estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment and the total
accumulated depreciation and amortization were as follows at December 31:  

Software
Development Costs    

  Software development
costs, if material, are capitalized from the date technological feasibility is
achieved until the product is available for general release to customers. Such
costs have not been material during the periods presented.  

    Investments    

  We classify our marketable debt and equity securities
as available-for-sale. Available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair
value. Unrealized holding gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, are
excluded from earnings and are reported as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) until realized. Dividend and interest income are
recognized when earned. Realized gains and losses from the sale of securities are
included in results of operations and are determined on the specific
identification basis. A decline in the market value that is deemed other than
temporary results in a charge to other income (expense) and the establishment
of a new cost basis for the investment.  

  We account for investments
in nonmarketable securities using the cost and equity methods. In assessing the
fair value cost method of such investments, we consider recent equity
transactions that investees have entered into, the status of each investee s
technology and strategies in place to achieve their objectives, as well as the
investee s financial condition and results of operations. To the extent there
are changes in these assessments, adjustments may need to be recorded. For
investments accounted for using the equity method, adjustments are made to the
carrying amount of the investment to account for our equity in undistributed
earnings (losses) of the investee. Investments are periodically evaluated for a
decline in value considered other-than-temporary. Any such decline is
recognized as a loss in the statement of operations.  

37     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Impairment
of Long- Lived Assets    

  Long-lived assets are
reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the
book value of an asset may not be fully recoverable. When this occurs, we
review the value assigned to long-lived assets by analyzing the anticipated,
undiscounted cash flows they generate. When the expected future undiscounted
cash flows from these assets do not exceed their carrying balances, the Company
determines the estimated fair value of such assets. An impairment is recognized
to the extent the carrying amount of the assets exceeds their estimated fair
value. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of their carrying amount
or fair value less costs to sell.  

    Warranty
Reserve    

  We provide a warranty
reserve for estimated future costs of servicing products under warranty
agreements extending for periods from 90 days to one year. Anticipated costs
for product warranties are based upon estimates derived from experience factors
and are recorded at the time of sale or over the period revenues are recognized
for long-term contracts. Warranty reserves are classified as accrued
liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.  

    Revenue
Recognition    

  Our
sales include revenue from system hardware, software, database products and
service contracts. The following table provides information on revenue by
recognition method applied during fiscal years:  

Percentage-of-Completion.        In arrangements that are longer in term and require
significant production, modification or customization, revenue is recognized in
accordance with the provisions of Statement of Position 81-1,  Accounting
for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts  ( SOP
81-1 ), using the percentage-of-completion method. In applying the
provisions of SOP 81-1, we utilize cost-to-cost methodology whereby we
estimate the percent complete by calculating the ratio of costs incurred
(consisting of material, labor and subcontracting costs, as well as an
allocation of indirect costs) to management s estimate of total anticipated
costs.  This ratio is then utilized to
determine the amount of gross profit earned based on management s estimate of
total estimated gross profit at completion. We routinely review estimates
related to percentage-of-completion contracts and adjust for changes in the
period revisions are made. Billings on uncompleted percentage-of-completion
contracts may be greater than or less than incurred costs and estimated
earnings and are recorded as an asset or liability in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets. 

  In those arrangements where software is a significant
component of the contract, the Company applies the guidance of Statement of
Position 97-2  Software Revenue Recognition,  which allows for use of the
percentage-of-completion method as described above.  

    Completed
Contract.        Contract
arrangements which typically require a relatively short period of time to
complete the production, modification, and customization of our products are
accounted for using the completed contract method. Accordingly, revenue is
recognized upon delivery of the completed product,  

38     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

provided persuasive
evidence of an arrangement exists, title and risk of loss has transferred, the
fee is fixed and determinable, and collection is reasonably assured.  

    Other.        Other revenue consists primarily of amounts earned
under maintenance contracts that are generally sold as a single element to our
customers. Revenue from product maintenance contracts, including separately
priced extended warranty contracts, is deferred and recognized over the period
of performance under the contract. 

    Anticipated
Losses.        For
contracts with anticipated losses at completion, a provision is recorded when
the loss becomes known. After an anticipated loss is recorded, subsequent
revenue and cost of sales are recognized in equal, offsetting amounts as
contract costs are incurred and do not generate further gross profits (losses). 

    Multiple Element
Arrangements.      Some of our contracts include
multiple elements. Revenue earned on elements such as products, services and
maintenance contracts are allocated to each element based on the relative fair
values of the elements. 

    Stock-Based
Compensation    

  Prior to December 31, 2005, as permitted under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123, the Company
accounted for its stock option plans following the recognition and measurement
principles of Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 25,  Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees,  and related interpretations. Accordingly, no
stock-based compensation expense from the issuance of stock options was
reflected in the Company s statements of operations as all options granted had
an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on
the date of grant and the related number of shares granted was fixed at that
point in time.  

  In December 2004, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board ( FASB ) issued SFAS No. 123(R),  Share Based Payment.  This
Statement revised SFAS No. 123 by eliminating the option to account for
employee stock options under APB No. 25 and required companies to
recognize the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of
equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of those awards.  

   On January 1, 2006 the
Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified
prospective application method.  Using this modified prospective
application method, compensation cost is recognized on a straight-line basis
for (1) all awards granted, modified, cancelled, or repurchased after the
date of adoption and (2) the unvested portion of previously granted awards
for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered as of the date of
adoption, based on the fair value of those awards on the grant-date. In
accordance with the modified prospective application method, operating results
for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 have not been restated.  

  Share-based compensation expense included in the
statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 was
approximately $1,020. Option grants accounted for $317 of the 2006 share-based
compensation expense while $228 was due to modifications to our former chief
executive officer s option grants as a result of his separation agreement
discussed in Note 10, and $474 was due to the accelerated vesting of options on
February 7, 2006 as a result of the Asset Purchase Agreement executed on February 7,
2006 as discussed in Note 2.  

  The
following table illustrates the effect on net loss and loss per common share if
the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123,
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,   

39     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

to stock-based employee compensation for periods
presented prior to the Company s adoption of SFAS No. 123(R):  

Income Taxes    

  We use the asset and liability
method of accounting for income taxes. Under the asset and liability method,
deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future income
tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective income
tax bases and operating loss and income tax credit carry-forwards. Deferred
income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected
to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences
are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred income tax
assets and liabilities of a change in income tax rates is recognized in the
period that includes the enactment date.  

    Other
Comprehensive Loss    

  We have applied the provisions of SFAS No. 109,  Accounting
for Income Taxes,  to our gains and losses included in other comprehensive loss
but excluded them from our net income or loss. On a net basis for 2006, 2005
and 2004, there was a deferred income tax asset as a result of the items
reflected in comprehensive loss. However, in applying SFAS No. 109 we
determined that it is more likely than not that we will not realize such net
deferred income tax assets and have therefore established a valuation allowance
against the full amount of the net deferred income tax asset. Accordingly, the
net income tax effect of the items included in other comprehensive loss is zero.
Therefore, we have included no income tax expense or benefit in relation to
items reflected in other comprehensive loss.  

  The
components of accumulated other comprehensive loss was as follows as of December 31:  

Leases    

  We recognize scheduled
rent increases on a straight-line basis over the lease term, which may include
optional lease renewal terms, and deferred rent income and expense are
recognized to reflect the difference between the rent paid or received in the
current period and the calculated straight-line amount.  

40     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Goodwill    

  In accordance with the
provisions of SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,  the
Company tests its recorded goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more
often if indicators of potential impairment exist, by determining if the
carrying value of each reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. Factors
that could trigger an impairment include, but are not limited to,
underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results,
significant changes in the manner of use of the acquired assets or the Company s
overall business and significant negative industry or economic trends. Future
impairment reviews may require write-downs in the Company s goodwill and could
have a material adverse impact on the Company s operating results for the
periods in which such write-downs occur.  

    Fair Value of Financial Instruments    

  The carrying amount of
cash and cash equivalents, receivables, accounts payable and accrued expenses
approximates fair value because of their short maturity. The fair values of
marketable securities available for sale are based on quoted market prices. For
non-marketable securities classified as long-term assets related to
discontinued operations as of December 31, 2005, a reasonable estimate of
fair value was impractical. The fair value of the 6% Debentures classified as
Long-term liabilities related to discontinued operations was $11,530 as of December 31,
2005, based on quoted market prices. The carrying value of the long-term debt
discussed in Note 8 equates to its carrying value because the interest rates of
the debt approximate market interest rates at the reporting periods.  

    Recent
Accounting Pronouncements    

  In June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation
Number 48 ( FIN 48 ),  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.  The interpretation contains a
two step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions
accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 109. The first step is to
evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of
available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will
be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation
processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest
amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate
settlement. The provisions are effective for the Company beginning in the first
quarter of 2007. The Company is evaluating the impact of FIN 48 on its
consolidated financial statements.  

  In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
 Fair Value Measurements.  SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a
framework for measuring fair value in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles ( GAAP ) and expands disclosures about fair value
measurements. This statement will be adopted by the Company for its fiscal
years beginning after November 15, 2007 and interim periods within those
fiscal years. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of SFAS No. 157
on its consolidated financial statements.  

  In September 2006,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
88, 106 and 132-R.  SFAS No. 158 requires employers to recognize on
their balance sheets the funded status of pension and other postretirement
benefit plans as of the end of the fiscal year ending after December 15,
2006, for public companies. SFAS No. 158 requires that companies recognize
actuarial gains and losses, prior service costs, and any remaining transition
amounts from the initial application of Statements 87 and 106 when recognizing
a plan s funded status, with the offset to accumulated other comprehensive
income. SFAS No. 158 will also require fiscal-year-end measurements of
plan assets and benefit obligations, eliminating   

41     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

the use
of earlier measurement dates currently permissible. The new measurement-date
requirement will not be effective until fiscal years ending after December 15,
2008. The Company has adopted the provisions of this statement as of December 31,
2006. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated
financial statements.  

   Note 2 Discontinued
Operations     

  On May 26, 2006, we sold substantially all of the
assets and certain liabilities primarily related to our commercial and military
simulation businesses and related service operations (the  Simulation Business )
to certain subsidiaries of Rockwell Collins, Inc., a Delaware corporation
( Rockwell Collins ), pursuant to an asset purchase agreement (the  Asset
Purchase Agreement ), dated as of February 7, 2006, by and between the
Company and Rockwell Collins. In connection with the completion of the sale of
the Simulation Business, on May 26, 2006 the Company entered into a laser
projection systems agreement (the  Laser Agreement ) with Rockwell Collins and
Rockwell Collins Simulation   Training Solutions LLC, pursuant to
which the Company has agreed to provide, and grant exclusive and non-exclusive
intellectual property licenses to use and sell, laser projection systems in
connection with the Simulation Business and certain related businesses of
Rockwell Collins. The transaction contemplated by the Asset Purchase Agreement
and the Laser Agreement (the  Transaction ) was approved by the Company s
shareholders at a combined annual and special meeting of shareholders held on May 25,
2006.  

  The aggregate consideration contemplated in the
Transaction was $71,500 in cash, consisting of the $66,500 purchase price under
the Asset Purchase Agreement (the  Asset Purchase Price ) for the assets
primarily related to the Simulation Business and $5,000 under the Laser
Agreement. On May 26, 2006, the closing of the sale of the Simulation
Business, Rockwell Collins paid the Company $59,500 under the terms of the
Asset Purchase Agreement, and deposited $10,000 (consisting of the remaining
$7,000 of the Asset Purchase Price and $3,000 under the Laser Agreement) in
escrow pursuant to an escrow agreement (the  Escrow Agreement ), dated as of May 26,
2006, by and between the Company, Rockwell Collins and U.S. Bank National
Association, as escrow agent. The Laser Agreement requires Rockwell Collins to
pay the remaining $2,000 of consideration in the Transaction directly to the
Company upon the completion of certain performance milestones by the Company. Under
the terms of the Escrow Agreement, the deposited amount will be held in escrow
to secure (i) any post-closing reduction in the Asset Purchase Price under
the Asset Purchase Agreement, (ii) the Company s indemnification
obligations under the Asset Purchase Agreement and (iii) the Company s
obligations (not to exceed $3,000 of the escrowed funds) to meet specified
milestones under the Laser Agreement. The escrowed funds will be released in
installments as set forth in the Escrow Agreement, subject to the passage of
time and the Company fulfilling requirements of the Escrow Agreement. In
connection with the sale of our Simulation Business, we agreed to indemnify
Rockwell Collins for any losses from breaches of the representations,
warranties or covenants we made in the Asset Purchase Agreement that occur
within certain periods after the closing.  

  The Asset Purchase Agreement provides for an
adjustment to the Asset Purchase Price based on the value, calculated in
accordance with the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, of the net assets
delivered at the closing date (the  Closing Net Assets ). Based on the value of
the Closing Net Assets calculated by the Company and Rockwell Collins under the
procedures set forth in the Asset Purchase Agreement, the Asset Purchase Price
has been adjusted by $4,800 resulting in an adjusted Asset Purchase Price of
$61,700. In accordance with the terms of the Escrow Agreement, in
March 2007, $200 of the $7,000 held for the Asset Purchase Price was
released to the Company and $4,800 was released to Rockwell Collins. The
remaining $2,000 held for the Asset Purchase Price is scheduled to be released
under the Escrow Agreement on July 1, 2007.  

42  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

  As of December 31, 2006, the Company has recorded
proceeds of $59,700 from the Transaction, representing the funds it received
through March 2007. We will record additional gain on the Transaction when
and to the extent that the remaining amounts to be paid by Rockwell Collins and
the remaining amounts held in escrow are released to the Company.  

  The
sale of assets by the Company pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement was a
taxable transaction for income tax purposes. Accordingly, we recognized a gain
with respect to the sale of assets pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement in
an amount equal to the difference between the amount of the consideration
received for each asset over the adjusted tax basis in the asset sold. As all
tax information is not yet available we have made estimates for certain items
in computing the tax gain until final information becomes available. Although
the asset sale resulted in taxable gain to the Company, a substantial portion
of the taxable gain will be offset by current year losses from operations, and
available net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The gain on the sale
of the Simulation Business is comprised of:  

43     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

As a
result of the sale of the Simulation Business, the consolidated balance sheet
as of December 31, 2005 and the consolidated statements of operations for
the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 have been restated to record
the necessary adjustments required to reflect the assets, liabilities, and
operations of the Simulation Business as discontinued operations. Assets and liabilities
of the Simulation Business included as assets or liabilities related to
discontinued operations in the accompanying condensed consolidated balance
sheet as of December 31, 2005 consisted of the following:  

44     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Summarized
results of operations for the Simulation Business included as income (loss)
from discontinued operations, net of tax, in the accompanying condensed
consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31 were
as follows:  

Note 3 Acquisition     

  On April 28, 2006, the Company completed the
acquisition of Spitz, Inc. ( Spitz ) by acquiring all outstanding shares
of Spitz common stock from Transnational Industries, Inc. ( Transnational )
pursuant to a stock purchase agreement (the  Stock Purchase Agreement ), dated
as of February 7, 2006, by and between the Company and Transnational.
Consideration under the Stock Purchase Agreement consisted of 412,500
unregistered shares of the Company s Common Stock, $0.20 par value, subject to
a post-closing share adjustment depending on the average trading price of the
Company s common stock for the 60-day period prior to registration of the
shares issued at closing. Pursuant to a Registration Rights Agreement between
the Company, Spitz, and Transnational, the Company was required to use its best
efforts to register those shares of stock issued as consideration for the
outstanding stock of Spitz. Registration of the shares issued to Transnational
became effective on November 9, 2006 and the Company issued an additional
84,948 shares in accordance with the post-closing adjustment. Based on the
average closing price of the Company s Common Stock for the period two days
prior and two days after the day the agreement was announced, the value of the
total shares issued is $2,814. Transaction costs were $70 and stock registration
costs were $30. The purchase price was determined in arms-length negotiations
between the Company and Transnational and we believe it is a nontaxable
transaction. The Company plans to continue to operate Spitz as a wholly owned
subsidiary. Spitz designs, manufactures and supports visual systems for
planetariums, science centers and entertainment venues and provides unique
domes and similarly shaped structures for specialized architectural
applications.  

45     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

The
transaction has been accounted for as a purchase and the operations of Spitz
have been consolidated with the operations of the Company effective May 1,
2006 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The following pro
forma information gives effect to this acquisition as if it had been completed
as of the beginning of the Company s fiscal periods presented. The Company s
fiscal year end is December 31 and Spitz  fiscal year end was January 31.
Because historical results of operations for Spitz are not available for the
fiscal periods presented, results from Spitz fiscal periods are presented as if
they covered the same periods as the Company s fiscal periods. The pro forma
information is presented for illustrative purposes only. Such information is
not necessarily indicative of the operating results had the acquisition taken
place as of the beginning of the Company s fiscal periods presented, nor is it
indicative of the results that may be expected for future periods.  

The
purchase consideration has been allocated based on an assessment of the fair
market values of the acquired assets and liabilities assumed. The consideration
paid by the Company was $2,884, including transaction costs of $70. The excess
of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets of Spitz gives rise
to goodwill which reflects value resulting from the marketing advantages and
operating efficiencies created by the business combination. The following table
sets forth the allocation of the purchase consideration to the tangible and
intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of April 28, 2006
based upon an independent valuation.  

46     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 4 Intangible
Assets and Goodwill     

  Intangible
assets and goodwill consisted of the following as of December 31, 2006:  

Goodwill of $635 consists of the excess of the
purchase consideration paid in the acquisition of Spitz (see Note 3) over the
fair value of the net assets acquired. We have determined that the assumptions
used in computing the valuation of goodwill as of April 28, 2006, the date
of the acquisition of Spitz, have not materially changed and therefore there is
no impairment of goodwill as of December 31, 2006.  

  Customer backlog, maintenance and legacy customers and
planetarium shows represent the value of definite-lived intangibles that were
identified in the acquisition of Spitz.  

  In November 2006, the Company acquired certain
intellectual property rights to protect the application of certain processes in
the use of its products for cash payments totaling $350.  

  Estimated
future amortization expense is as follows:  

Note 5 Costs and
Estimated Earnings on Uncompleted Contracts     

  Comparative
information with respect to uncompleted contracts at fiscal year-end:  

47     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

The
above amounts are reported in the consolidated balance sheets as follows:  

Note 6 Leases     

  We occupy real property and use certain equipment
under lease arrangements that are accounted for as operating leases. Our real
property leases contain escalation clauses. Rental expenses for all operating
leases for 2006, 2005, and 2004 were $265, $228 and $228, respectively.  

  Future
minimum lease payments under operating leases that have initial or remaining
non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year are as follows:  

Sub-lease rental income
for all operating leases for 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $7, $117 and $357,
respectively. At December 31, 2006, we had no future lease rental income
from operating leases that have initial or remaining noncancelable lease terms.  

   Note 7 Employee
Retirement Benefit Plans     

    Pension
Plan    

  The Pension Plan is a
qualified defined benefit pension plan funded by Company contributions. Our
funding policy is to contribute amounts sufficient to satisfy regulatory
funding standards, based upon independent actuarial valuations. The Pension
Plan was frozen in 2002. Benefits at normal retirement age (65) are based upon
the employee s years of service, as of the date of the curtailment for
employees not yet retired, and the employee s compensation prior to the
curtailment.  

    Supplemental
Executive Retirement Plan    

  We maintain an unfunded
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ( SERP ). The SERP provides eligible
executives defined pension benefits, outside our pension plan, based on average
salary, years of service and age at retirement. The SERP was amended in 2002 to
discontinue further SERP gains from future salary increases and close the SERP
to new participants.  

    401(k) Deferred
Savings Plan    

  We have a deferred savings
plan that qualifies under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.
The 401(k) plan covers all employees of the Company who have at least one
year of service and who are   

48     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

age 18
or older. We make matching contributions on employee contributions after the
employee has achieved one year of service. We may also make extra matching
contributions based on our profitability and other financial and operational
considerations. No extra matching contributions have been made to date. Our
contributions to the 401(k) plan for 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $240, $591
and $625, respectively.  

    Executive
Savings Plan    

  The Executive Savings Plan ( ESP ) is an unfunded
deferred compensation plan that allows tax-deferred retirement savings beyond
the amount that can be contributed to the 401(k) plan. The ESP, a
nonqualified plan that does not have the same protections as a qualified 401(k) plan,
covers a portion of the management employees. Participants earn matching
amounts on their contributions with the same percentage limit as the qualified
401(k) plan. Consistent with the curtailment of the SERP, the ESP was
amended in 2002 to permit the Board of Directors to grant additional
discretionary contributions.  

  We purchase Company-owned
life insurance policies insuring the lives of participants in the ESP. The
policies accumulate asset values and exist to cover the cost of employee
supplemental retirement benefit liabilities. At December 31, 2006 and
2005, prepaid expenses and deposits included our investments in the policies of
$955 and $957, respectively. At December 31, 2005, an additional $1,224 of
investment in the policies was classified as long-term assets related to
discontinued operations. Net insurance expense from these policies was $50, $96
and $160 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.  

    Obligations
and Funded Status    

  E S uses a December 31 measurement date for both
the Pension Plan and SERP.  

49     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

As of December 31,
2006 and 2005, the projected benefit obligations related to our defined benefit
plans were equal to the accumulated benefit obligations, and therefore there
were no adjustments to the recorded pension liabilities and accumulated other
comprehensive income balances upon adoption of SFAS No. 158. Information
concerning the obligations, plan assets and funded status of employee
retirement defined benefit plans are provided below:  

Amounts
recognized in the consolidated balance sheets consist of:  

Components of net periodic benefit cost     

50  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

   Additional
information     

  The increase (decrease) to our unrecognized net
actuarial loss recorded in other comprehensive income for the Pension Plan of
$(2,279) and $3,418 during 2006 and 2005, respectively, arose from the
difference between the accumulated benefit obligation and the accrued pension
expense at the end of each year.  

  The increase (decrease) to
our minimum liability recorded in other comprehensive income for the SERP of
$(26) and $402 during 2006 and 2005, respectively, arose from the difference between
the accumulated benefit obligation and the accrued pension expense at the end
of each year.  

   Assumptions     

  The weighted average assumptions used to determine
benefit obligations at December 31, 2006 and 2005, included discount rates
of 6.00% and 5.75%, respectively, for the Pension Plan and SERP. The weighted
average assumptions used to determine net periodic cost for years ended December 31,
2006 and 2005 included a discount rate of 5.75% and 6.00%, respectively, for
the Pension and SERP. The weighted average assumption used to determine an
expected long-term rate of return on Pension Plan assets was 8.00%.  

  The long-term rate of
return on plan assets was estimated as the weighted average of expected return
of each of the asset classes in the target allocation of plan assets. The
expected return of each asset class is based on historical market returns.  

    Pension
Plan Assets    

  The
Pension Plan s weighted-average asset allocations at fiscal year-end,
weighted-average planned targeted asset allocations going forward, and expected
long-term returns on plan assets are as follows:  

The asset allocation policy, consistent with the
long-term growth objectives of the Pension Plan, is to invest on a diversified
basis among various asset classes as determined by the Pension Plan
Administrative Committee. Assets will be invested in a manner that will provide
for long-term growth with a goal to achieve returns equal to or greater than
applicable benchmarks. Investments will be managed by registered investment
advisors. When investing Pension Plan assets, the investment managers of
separately managed accounts shall not utilize derivative instruments for
speculative purposes or to create leveraged positions.  

  No equity securities of
the Company were part of the Pension Plan assets as of December 31, 2006
or 2005.  

51     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Cash Flow    

   Employer
contributions     

  Our funding policy is to contribute amounts sufficient
to satisfy regulatory funding standards, based upon independent actuarial
valuations. We are not required to fund
the SERP. All benefit payments are made by us directly to those who receive
benefits from the SERP. As such, these payments are treated as both
contributions and benefits paid for reporting purposes.  

  No contributions are expected to be made to the
Pension Plan in 2007. On May 26, 2006, the Company entered an asset
purchase agreement with Rockwell Collins, Inc. (see Note 2). Using
proceeds from the sale, the Company contributed $11,348 to pension assets
during September 2006 in order to meet a funding obligation for plan years
2005 and 2006.  

  Also using proceeds from
the sale, the Company contributed $5,550 to the SERP plan to meet its change of
control provision. The Company invested these funds in debt and equity securities
that have been classified and accounted for as available-for-sale securities. At
December 31, 2006, the investment was reported at its fair market value of
$5,832 and was classified as prepaid pension and retirement. There was $271 of
unrealized gain recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income as of December 31,
2006. The Company expects to contribute and pay benefits of approximately $560
related to the SERP in 2007. This contribution is expected to be made by
liquidating the prepaid pension and retirement investments. As a result of the
change in control and termination of certain employees, the Company recorded a
termination charge of $255.  

   Estimated future
benefit payments     

  The
following benefit payments are expected to be paid based on actuarial estimates
and prior experience:  

52     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 8 Long-term
Debt     

  Long-term
debt consists of the following as of December 31:  

Principal
maturities on total debt are scheduled to occur in the following years:  

Line of Credit    

  On April 28, 2006, Spitz entered into a Line of
Credit Agreement (the  Credit Agreement ) and a Line of Credit Note (the  Note )
with a commercial bank, continuing a $3,000 line of credit for working capital
purposes. Under the Note, the outstanding balance will bear a per annum
interest rate of one-half percent (0.5%) above the Wall Street Prime rate. The
Note matures June 30, 2007. The Note is secured by Spitz real and personal
property, a guaranty agreement (the  Guaranty Agreement ) entered into by the
Company, and a pledge agreement (the  Pledge Agreement ) entered into by the
Company and the commercial bank. Three days after entering into the Credit
Agreement, the maximum line of credit decreased to $2,500 per the Credit
Agreement. Under the Credit Agreement, Spitz is required to, among other terms
and conditions: maintain a minimum tangible net worth of $1,700, determined
quarterly; maintain a $200 average daily balance, measured quarterly, in its
deposit accounts; and maintain an aggregate daily balance of Spitz deposit
accounts with a commercial bank of not less than $100 for any consecutive five
day period. Under the Guaranty Agreement, the Company has guaranteed the
payment and performance of the conditions of the Note. Under the Pledge
Agreement the Company has granted to the commercial bank a first priority
security interest and lien in and to all of the outstanding shares of Spitz
common stock to secure the Note.  

  On July 28, 2006, the
Company and Spitz entered into an agreement to modify and amend the Credit
agreement ( Modification Agreement ). The Modification Agreement reduced the
borrowing limit to $1,100 and made certain changes to the terms of the Credit
Agreement regarding the reporting for compliance of the tangible net worth
covenant. As of December 31, 2006, the Company was in compliance with the
tangible net worth covenant and other covenants of the line of credit.  

53     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Mortgage Note    

  The mortgage note payable
represents the balance on a $3,200 note ( Mortgage Note ) issued on January 14,
2004 by Spitz. The Mortgage Note requires repayment in monthly installments of
principal and interest over twenty years. The monthly installment for the first
three years is $23 and includes interest at 5.75% per annum. On January 14,
2007 and each third year thereafter, the interest rate will be adjusted to the
greater of 5.75% or 3% over the Three-Year Constant Maturity Treasury Rate
published by the United States Federal Reserve ( 3YCMT ). The 3YCMT as of January 14,
2007 was 4.83%. The monthly installment will be recalculated on the first month
following a change in the interest rate. The recalculated monthly installment
will be equal to the monthly installment sufficient to repay the principal
balance, as of the date of the change in the interest rate, over the remaining
portion of the original twenty-year term. As of February 2007, the new
monthly installment amount is $26.The Mortgage Note is secured by the real
property acquired with the proceeds of the note pursuant to a Mortgage and
Security Agreement. The Mortgage Note and Credit Agreement contain cross
default provisions whereby the default of either agreement will result in the
default of both agreements. On March 30, 2007, the Company executed a
Guarantee of Spitz  obligation under the Mortgage Note in consideration for the
replacement of the requirement of annual audited financial statements of Spitz
under the Mortgage Note and Credit Agreement with the annual audited financial
statements of the Company.  

    Lease Obligations    

  With the acquisition of
Spitz, the Company acquired certain capital leases for equipment. Future annual
rentals reflect interest rates ranging from 8.1% to 9.6%. Equipment related to
such leases has been capitalized at its estimated fair value in connection with
the purchase price allocation and is reflected in property, plant and equipment
in the amount of $187 net of accumulated amortization of $18 as December 31,
2006.  

    6%
Convertible Subordinated Debentures    

  As of December 31,
2005, there was $18,015 of 6% Convertible Subordinated Debentures outstanding
(the  6% Debentures ) that were classified as long-term liabilities related to
discontinued operations. The 6% Debentures, due in 2012, were unsecured and
were convertible at each bondholder s option into shares of our common stock at
a conversion price of $42.10 per share for an aggregate of 428,000 shares of
our common stock if all outstanding 6% Debentures were converted, subject to
adjustment. Prior to the sale of the Simulation Business, the 6% Debentures
were redeemable at our option, in whole or in part, at par. The Debentures
required redemption upon the sale of the Simulation Business. Accordingly, all
of the Debentures were redeemed on June 26, 2006.  

   Note 9 Income Taxes     

  The income tax expense of $372 for 2006 is primarily
attributable to estimated tax on the gain from the sale of the Simulation
Business. The income tax benefit of $430 for 2005 is primarily attributable to
favorable resolution of certain income tax contingencies. The income tax
expense of $112 for 2004 is primarily attributable to foreign income taxes.  

54     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

The
actual expense (benefit) differs from the expected tax expense (benefit) as
computed by applying the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate of 35 percent,
during fiscal year:  

Income
tax (expense) benefit consisted of the following:  

The
tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of
the deferred tax assets and liabilities as of fiscal year-end:  

55     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Worldwide
income (loss) before income taxes consisted of the following:  

Income
tax (expense) benefit consisted of the following:  

We have total federal net operating loss carryforwards
of approximately $154,080 of which $176 begins to expire in 2007. We have
various federal tax credit carryforwards of approximately $3,700 that expire
between 2007 and 2021. We also have state net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $130,400 and state tax credit carryforwards of approximately $2,700
that expire depending on the rules of the various states to which the loss
or credit is allocated.  

  During the year ended December 31,
2006, we decreased the valuation allowance on deferred income tax assets by
approximately $8,896. During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004,
we increased the valuation allowance on deferred income tax assets by
approximately $777 and $6,434, respectively. Valuation allowances were
established according to our belief that it is more likely than not that these
net deferred income tax assets will not be realized.  

   Note 10 Commitments
and Contingencies     

    CEO Resignation    

  On June 8, 2006, we
announced the resignation of James R. Oyler as the Company s Chief Executive
Officer, President, and member of the Board of Directors, effective June 7,
2006.  In connection with the resignation of
Mr. Oyler, the Company and Mr. Oyler entered into a Separation and
Release Agreement (the  Separation Agreement ), which provided, in part, that Mr. Oyler
receive his base salary through July 7, 2006; lump sum severance in an
amount equal to two times Mr. Oyler s  Gross Income  (as defined and
determined in accordance with Mr. Oyler s employment agreement) on January 10,
2007; payment of the Company s obligations to Mr. Oyler under its
compensation plans; payment of Mr. Oyler s medical, dental and vision
premiums under COBRA until July 7, 2008; acceleration of the vesting of
any stock options issued and not    

56     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

vested as of June 7, 2006; and miscellaneous other
terms. The Company has made all required payments to Mr. Oyler as of the
date of this filing.  

    Research and Development Arrangement    

  In December 2005, we
entered into a research and development agreement with a third party to pay $60
a month for 24 months in return for design and development services to be
provided by the third party, and $2 million in quarterly payments over a two
year period in exchange for future exclusive rights to the application of the
results of the research and development efforts to be provided by the third
party. We also agreed to pay $400 in cash or freely tradable common stock upon
the earlier of 2 years or a public announcement of a product utilizing the
results of the research and development efforts. We had $1,810 remaining to pay
as of December 31, 2006. Because the agreement relates to technology that
is under development and has not reached technological feasibility, all
payments made under the agreement are expensed as research and development as
incurred. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had paid $2,030 of research
and development costs under the agreement.  

    Other    

  In December 2005, the Company sold a building
with a net book value of $3,820, for proceeds of $6,277, net of closing costs. We recognized a gain on the sale of $2,745
in 2005. As part of the sale, we entered into a 21 month lease agreement
with the buyer obligating us to make
certain monthly payments through September 2007 depending on the remaining
space available for lease in the building sold. The Company is required
to pay a monthly pro rata share of operating expenses not to exceed $319 over
the twenty-one month lease term. As of
December 31, 2006, we had a maximum remaining guarantee related to these
obligations of $468 recorded as an accrued liability. The maximum rental
guarantee may decrease as available space is leased, based on terms of the
rental guarantee. To the extent the maximum rental guarantee is reduced,
additional gain will be realized.  

  As of December 31,
2006, we had outstanding letters of credit and bank guarantees of $633. Letters
of credit that expire in 2007 total $633.  

   Note 11 Legal
Proceedings     

  In December 2005, we
settled a lawsuit previously filed by the Company against an insurance company
with respect to an insurance claim made by the Company for losses incurred due
to the cancellation of a significant contract by a customer. Under the terms of
the settlement, the Company received a payment of $8,000 and agreed to dismiss
the lawsuit and to provide a release of claims against the insurance company. The
insurance settlement proceeds of $8,000 were recorded as gain on insurance
settlement and included with the loss from discontinued operations for the year
ended December 31, 2005.  

  In the normal course of
business, we may have various legal claims and other contingent matters. Although
the final outcome of such matters cannot be predicted, we believe the ultimate
disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.  

   Note 12 Stock Option and Stock Purchase Plans     

    Stock Option Plans    

  In 2004, shareholders
approved the adoption of the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan of Evans  
Sutherland Computer Corporation ( 2004 Plan ), which expires in 2014. The 2004
Plan is a stock incentive plan that   

57     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

provides
for the grant of options and restricted stock awards to employees and for the
grant of options to non-employee directors. Under the 2004 Plan non-employee
directors receive an annual option grant for no more than 10,000 shares. New
non-employee directors receive an option grant for no more than 10,000 shares
upon their appointment or election. In addition, with the adoption of this plan
no additional options can be issued under any of the prior stock-based plans. The
2004 Plan establishes a minimum exercise price for options of 110% of fair
market value on the date of grant. Restricted stock awards may be qualified as
a performance-based award that conditions a participant s award upon
achievement by the Company or its subsidiaries of performance goals established
by our Board of Directors  Compensation Committee.  

  The number of shares,
terms, and exercise period of option grants are determined by the Board of
Directors on an option-by-option basis. Options generally vest ratably over
three years and expire ten years from the date of grant. As of December 31,
2006, options to purchase 487,022 shares of common stock were authorized and
reserved for future grant.  

  Upon execution of the
Asset Purchase Agreement (see Note 2 ), all options outstanding under the 2004
Plan on February 7, 2006 were subject to accelerated vesting and became
fully vested by their terms.  

  A
summary of activity follows (shares in thousands):  

58  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

  As of December 31, 2006, options exercisable and
options outstanding had a weighted average remaining contractual term of 4.0
and 4.8 years, respectively, and an aggregate intrinsic value of $6 and $6,
respectively.  

  The
fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of the grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions used for grants:  

Expected option lives and volatilities are based on
historical data of the Company. Our risk free interest rate is calculated as
the average US Treasury bill rate that corresponds with the option life. Historically,
the Company has not declared dividends and there are no future plans to do so.  

  During the years ended December 31,
2006, 2005, and 2004, the total intrinsic value of options exercised was $72,
$7, and $4 , respectively. As of December 31,
2006, there was approximately $394 of total unrecognized share-based
compensation cost related grants under our plans that will be recognized over a
weighted-average period of 1.2 years.  

    Stock
Purchase Plan    

  The Company also had an
employee stock purchase plan under which a maximum of 800,000 shares of common
stock could be purchased by eligible employees. This plan allowed employees to
have up to 10% of their gross pay withheld each pay period to purchase the
Company s common stock at 85% of the market value of the stock at the time of
the sale. Under this plan, 2,253 shares in 2006, 17,702 shares in 2005, and
26,132 shares in 2004 were purchased. The employee stock purchase plan expired
on February 20, 2006.  

   Note 13 Preferred
Stock     

    Class A
Preferred Stock    

  We have 5,000,000 authorized shares of Class A
Preferred Stock. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, there were no Class A
Preferred shares of stock outstanding. Prior to 1998, we had reserved 300,000
shares of Class A Preferred Stock as Series A Junior Preferred Stock
under a shareholder rights plan which expired in November 1998. In November 1998,
the Board of Directors declared a dividend of one preferred stock purchase
right ( Right ) for each outstanding share of common stock of E S for
shareholders of record on November 19, 1998, and for all future issuances
of common stock. The Rights are not currently exercisable or transferable apart
from the common stock and do not have voting rights or rights to receive
dividends. Each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from E S
one thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock at a price per share of $60.00,
subject to adjustment. The Rights will be exercisable ten business days
following a public announcement of a person or group of affiliated persons
acquiring beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our outstanding common shares
or following the announcement of a tender offer or exchange offer upon the
consummation of which would result in the beneficial ownership by a person or
group of affiliated persons of 15% or more of the outstanding E S stock. The
Rights may be redeemed by E S at a price of $0.01 per Right before November 30,
2008.  

59     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

In the event that we are acquired in a merger or other
business combination transaction, provision shall be made so that each holder
of a Right, excluding the Rights beneficially owned by the acquiring persons,
will have the right to receive, upon exercise thereof at the then current
exercise price, that number of common shares of the surviving company which at
the time of such transaction will have a market value of two times the exercise
price of the Right. In the event that a person or group of affiliated persons
acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our outstanding common shares,
provision shall be made so that each holder of a Right, excluding the Rights
beneficially owned by the acquiring persons, shall have the right to receive,
upon exercise thereof, a share of common stock at a purchase price equal to 50%
of the then current exercise price.  

  On August 13, 2004,
E S and American Stock Transfer   Trust Company amended the Rights
to allow Peter R. Kellog to acquire beneficial ownership up to 19.9% of our
outstanding common shares without triggering the exercisability of the Rights. On
June 7, 2000, E S and American Stock Transfer   Trust Company
amended the Rights to allow the State of Wisconsin Investment Board to acquire
beneficial ownership up to 19.9% of our outstanding common shares without
triggering the exercisability of the Rights.  

    Class B
Preferred Stock    

  We have 5,000,000
authorized shares of Class B Preferred Stock. As of December 31, 2006
and 2005, no shares were outstanding.  

   Note 14 Net Income
(Loss) per Common Share     

  Net income (loss) per common share is computed based
on the weighted-average number of common shares and, as appropriate, dilutive
common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. Stock options are
potentially common stock equivalents.  

  Basic income or loss per
common share is based upon the average number of shares of common stock
outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per common share in 2006
includes the effect of 21 dilutive shares from stock options deemed to be
common stock equivalents under SFAS No. 123(R). The effect of 26 and 11
shares from stock options were excluded from the computation in 2005 and 2004,
respectively, because the net loss in each year made the inclusion of such
shares anti-dilutive. Other potentially dilutive securities from stock options
are discussed in Note 12.  

   Note 15 Geographic
Information     

  The
table below presents sales by geographic location of our customers during the
fiscal year. Sales within individual countries greater than 10% of consolidated
sales are shown separately:  

60     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Note 16 Significant
Customers     

  For the year ended December 31, 2006, no
individual customer provided 10% or more of total revenue. For the year ended December 31,
2005, revenue from Customers A and B were 12% and 11% of total revenue,
respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2004, revenue from Customers
B and C were 13% and 11% of total revenue, respectively.  

  At December 31, 2006, accounts receivable from
Customers A, B and G were 19%, 14% and 14%, of total accounts receivable,
respectively. At December 31, 2005, accounts receivable from Customers A
and D were 41% and 12% of total accounts receivable, respectively.  

  At December 31, 2006,
Customers A and E had costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings that
represented 21% and 14% of total costs and estimated earnings in excess of
billings, respectively. At December 31, 2005, Customers A and F had costs
and estimated earnings in excess of billings that represented 49% and 26% of
total costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings, respectively.  

   Note 17 Restatement
of Quarterly Financial Statements     

  During
the fiscal 2006 year-end closing process, we reviewed our  classifications of the assets and liabilities
of our discontinued Simulation Business that was sold to Rockwell Collins
during the second quarter of 2006 and determined that certain items previously
reported related to the reclassification of discontinued operations had been
classified incorrectly between assets and liabilities from continuing
operations and assets and liabilities of discontinued operations for the
balance sheet at December 31, 2005, as previously filed on Form 10-Q
as of June 30, 2006 and September 29, 2006. In addition, we found
that the statement of operations for the nine months ended September 30,
2005 required a reclassification of selling and marketing expenses between
continuing and discontinued operations. The amounts as filed and as restated
are presented below:  

   Selected Balance
Sheet Data   (Unaudited)   

61     

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)   

Selected Statement of Operations Data   (Unaudited)   

62  

REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

  To the Board of Directors and 
Stockholders of Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation  

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheet of Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation (the Company) as of December 31,
2006, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders 
equity (deficit) and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for the year
then ended.  These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audit. The consolidated financial statements as of December 31,
2005 and for the two years then ended, before the adjustments described in Note
2 to the consolidated financial statements, were audited by other auditors
whose report, dated March 31, 2006, expressed an unqualified opinion on
those statements.  

  We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over
financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall consolidated financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial position of Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation as of December 31,
2006, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for
the year then ended in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.  

  We also audited the
adjustments described in Note 2 that were applied to restate the 2005 and 2004
consolidated financial statements for the discontinued operations. In our
opinion, such adjustments are appropriate and have been properly applied. We
were not engaged to audit, review, or apply any procedures to the 2005 and 2004
consolidated financial statements of the Company other than with respect to the
adjustments and, accordingly, we do not express an opinion or any other form of
assurance on the 2005 and 2004 consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole.  

  /s/ Tanner LC  

  Salt Lake City, Utah 
April 2, 2007  

63  

Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

  The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation:  

  We have audited, before the effects of adjustments to
restate for discontinued operations described in Note 2, the accompanying
consolidated balance sheet of Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders  equity and comprehensive loss, and cash
flows for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 (the 2005 and 2004
consolidated financial statements before the effects of the adjustments
discussed in Note 2 are not presented herein). The 2005 and 2004 consolidated
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.  

  We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

  In our opinion, the 2005 and 2004 consolidated
financial statements referred to above, before the effects of adjustments to
restate for discontinued operations described in Note 2, present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Evans   Sutherland
Computer Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.  

  We were not engaged to
audit, review, or apply any procedures to the adjustments to restate for
discontinued operations described in Note 2 and, accordingly, we do not express
an opinion or any other form of assurance about whether such adjustments are
appropriate and have been properly applied. Those adjustments were audited by
Tanner LC.  

  /s/ KPMG LLP  

  Salt Lake City, Utah 
March 31, 2006  

64  

ITEM 9.                    CHANGES IN AND
DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   

  None.  

   ITEM 9A.            CONTROLS
AND PROCEDURES   

    Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures     

  We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that
are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in its reports
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules and
forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and that such information is
accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating the disclosure
controls and procedures, management recognized that any controls and
procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only
reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and
management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the
cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.  

  As required by Securities
and Exchange Commission Rule 13a-15(b), we carried out an
evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management,
including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on the
foregoing, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded
that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the
reasonable assurance level.  

    Changes
in Internal Controls     

  There have been no changes
in our internal control over financial reporting that may have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
over financial reporting. Our process for evaluating controls and procedures is
continuous and encompasses constant improvement of the design and effectiveness
of established controls and procedures and the remediation of any deficiencies
which may be identified during this process.  

   ITEM 9B.           OTHER
INFORMATION   

   Entry into a
Material Definitive Agreement     

  On March 30, 2007, E S executed a Guarantee
of Spitz  obligation under a mortgage loan agreement First Keystone Bank ( FKB )
dated January 14, 2004. Also on March 30, 2007    E S,
Spitz, and FKB amended the $3,000,000 Line of Credit Agreement ( Credit
Agreement ) between Spitz and FKB, and the Mortgage Loan Agreement ( Mortgage
Agreement ) between Spitz and FKB to replace the requirement that we provide
annual audited financial statements of Spitz with a requirement to provide
annual audited financial statements of E S. The Modification to the Credit
Agreement, Modification to the Mortgage Agreement, and Guarantee are filed as
Exhibits 10.28, 10.29 and 10.30 to this Form 10-K and incorporated
herein by reference  

65  

PART III     

   ITEM 10.             DIRECTORS,
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   

  Certain information
required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption  Election
of Directors  in the Proxy Statement for our 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
and that information is incorporated herein by reference. Information required
by Item 405 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption  Compliance
with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  in the
Proxy Statement for our 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and that
information is incorporated herein by reference. Certain information required
by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is included in Part I of this Form 10-K
under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant.  The information
required by Item 407(a) of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption  Election
of Directors  in the Proxy Statement for our 2007 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders and that information is herein incorporated by reference.  

   Code of Ethics     

  Evans   Sutherland maintains a Code of Ethics
and Business Conduct which is applicable to all employees, including all
officers, and including our independent non-employee directors with regard to
Evans   Sutherland related activities. The Code of Ethics and Business
Conduct incorporates our guidelines designed to deter wrongdoing and to promote
honest and ethical conduct and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
It also incorporates our expectations of our employees that enable us to
provide accurate and timely disclosure in our filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission and other public communications. In addition, they
incorporate our expectations of our employees concerning prompt internal
reporting of violations of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct.  

  The full text of the Evans  
Sutherland Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is published on our Investors
Relations website at www.es.com. We intend to disclose future amendments to
certain provisions of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct or waivers of
such provisions granted to executive officers and directors, on this website
within four business days following the date of such amendment or waiver.  

   ITEM 11.             EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION   

  The information required
by this item will be included under the captions  Executive Compensation  and  Election
of Directors  in the Proxy Statement for our 2007 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders and that information is herein incorporated by reference.  

   ITEM 12.             SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS   

  The information required
by Item 403 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption  Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  in the Proxy Statement
for our 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and that information is herein
incorporated by reference.  

66     

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity
Compensation Plans as of December 31, 2006     

Number of securities   

Number of securities   

remaining available for   

to be issued upon   

Weighted average   

future issuance   

exercise of   

exercise price of   

under equity compensation   

outstanding options,   

outstanding options,   

plans (excluding securities   

warrants and rights   

warrants and rights   

reflected in column (a))   

(a)   

(b)   

(c)   

Equity
  compensation plans approved by security holders  

1,917,695  

$  

9.59  

487,022  

Equity
  compensation plans not approved by security holders  

Total  

1,917,695  

$  

9.59  

487,022  

ITEM 13.             CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS   

  The information required
by Item 404 of Regulation S-K will be included under the caption  Certain
Relationships and Related Party Transactions  in the Proxy Statement for our
2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and that information is herein incorporated
by reference.  

   ITEM 14.             PRINCIPAL
ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES   

  The information required by Item 14 will be included
under the caption  Report of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors  in
the Proxy Statement for our 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and that
information is herein incorporated by reference.  

67  

PART IV     

   ITEM 15.             EXHIBITS
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   

   (a)               List
of documents filed as part of this report  

  1.                   Financial
Statements 

  The following
consolidated financial statements are included in Part II, Item 8 of this
report on Form 10-K.  

              Consolidated
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 

              Consolidated
Statement of Operations for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
2006 

              Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity and
Comprehensive Loss for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2006 

              Consolidated Statement of
Cash Flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
2006 

              Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements 

  2.                   Financial
Statement Schedules 

  There are no schedules
filed because of the absence of conditions under which they are required or
because the required information is presented in the consolidated financial
statements or the notes thereto.  

  3.                   Exhibits 

Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws 

3.1.1  

Articles of
  Incorporation, as amended, filed as Exhibit 3.1 to Evans  
  Sutherland Computer Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K, SEC
  File No. 000-08771, for the fiscal year ended December 25,
  1987, and incorporated herein by this reference.  

3.1.2  

Amendments to Articles
  of Incorporation filed as Exhibit 3.1.1 to Evans   Sutherland
  Computer Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K, SEC File
  No. 000-08771, for the fiscal year ended December 30, 1988,
  and incorporated herein by this reference.  

3.1.3  

Certificate of
  Designation, Preferences and Other Rights of the Class B-1
  Preferred Stock of Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation, filed as
  Exhibit 3.1 to Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation s
  Form 10-Q, SEC File No. 000-08771, for the quarter
  ended September 25, 1998, and incorporated herein by this reference.  

3.2.1  

Amended and Restated
  Bylaws of Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation, filed as
  Exhibit 3.2 to Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation s
  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, and
  incorporated herein by this reference.  

3.2.2  

Amendment No. 1 to
  the Amended and Restated Bylaws of Evans   Sutherland Computer
  Corporation, filed as Exhibit 3.3 to Evans   Sutherland
  Computer Corporation s Form 10-K for the year ended
  December 31, 2000, and incorporated herein by this reference.  

68     

Instruments defining the
  rights of security holders 

4.1  

Form of Rights
  Agreement, dated as of November 19, 1998, between Evans  
  Sutherland Computer Corporation and American Stock Transfer Trust Company
  which includes as Exhibit A, the form of Certificate of Designation for
  the Rights, as Exhibit B, the form of Rights Certificate and as
  Exhibit C, a Summary of Rights, filed as Exhibit 1 to Evans  
  Sutherland Computer Corporation s Registration Statement on Form 8-A
  filed December 8, 1998, and incorporated herein by this reference.  

4.2  

First Amendment to
  Rights Agreement dated as of June 7, 2000 between Evans  
  Sutherland Computer Corporation and American Stock Transfer   Trust
  Company, filed as Exhibit 10.14 to Evans   Sutherland Computer
  Corporation s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2000,
  and incorporated herein by this reference.  

4.3  

Second Amendment to
  Rights Agreement dated as of August 13, 2004 between Evans  
  Sutherland Computer Corporation and American Stock Transfer   Trust
  Company, filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Evans   Sutherland Computer
  Corporation s Form 8-K filed on August 16, 2004, and
  incorporated herein by this reference.  

Material contracts  

Management
  contracts and compensatory plans  

10.1  

Evans  
  Sutherland Computer Corporation 1998 Stock Option Plan, as amended as through
  May 17, 2000, filed as exhibit 4.1 to Evans   Sutherland
  Computer Corporation s Post Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration
  Statement on Form S-8, SEC File No. 333-58733, and
  incorporated herein by this reference.  

10.2  

Evans  
  Sutherland Computer Corporation s 1995 Long-Term Incentive Equity Plan, filed
  as Exhibit 10.11 to Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation s
  Annual Report on Form 10-K, SEC File No. 000-08771, for
  the fiscal year ended December 29, 1995, and incorporated herein by this
  reference.  

10.3  

Evans  
  Sutherland Computer Corporation 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, filed as Annex A
  to Evans   Sutherland s Form 14A, SEC File No. 001-14667,
  filed on April 19, 2004 and incorporated herein by this reference.  

10.4  

Amended and restated
  Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation s Supplemental Executive
  Retirement Plan (SERP), dated May 16, 2002, filed as Exhibit 10.38
  to Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation s Form 10-K
  for the year ended December 31, 2002, and incorporated herein by
  reference.  

10.5  

Amended and restated
  Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation s Executive Savings Plan,
  dated May 16, 2002, filed as Exhibit 10.39 to Evans  
  Sutherland Computer Corporation s Form 10-K for the year ended
  December 31, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference.  

69     

10.6 

Employment agreement
  between Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation and James R. Oyler,
  dated May 16, 2000, filed as Exhibit 10.6 to Evans  
  Sutherland Computer Corporation s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
  June 30, 2000, and incorporated herein by this reference.  

10.7  

Amendment to employment
  agreement between Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation and James
  R. Oyler, dated September 22, 2000, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to
  Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation s Form 10-Q for
  the quarter ended September 29, 2000, and incorporated herein by this
  reference.  

10.8  

Employment agreement
  between Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation and Kirk Johnson,
  dated August 26, 2002, filed as Exhibit 10.14 to Evans  
  Sutherland Computer Corporation s Form 10-K for the year ended
  December 31, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference.  

10.9  

Employment Agreement,
  dated February 8, 2006, by and between Evans   Sutherland
  Computer Corporation and Jonathan Shaw, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to
  Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation s Form 10-Q for
  the quarter ended June 30, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.  

10.10  

Employment Agreement
  dated February 8, 2006, by and between Evans   Sutherland
  Computer Corporation and Paul Dailey, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to
  Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation s Form 10-Q for
  the quarter ended June 30, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.  

10.11  

Separation and Release
  Agreement, dated June 8, 2006, by and between Evans  
  Sutherland Computer Corporation and James R. Oyler, filed as
  Exhibit 10.3 to Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation s
  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, and incorporated
  herein by reference.  

10.12  

Agreement and Release of
  ADEA Claims, dated June 8, 2006, by and between Evans  
  Sutherland Computer Corporation and James R. Oyler, filed as
  Exhibit 10.4 to Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation s
  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, and
  incorporated herein by reference.  

10.13  

Employment Agreement,
  dated August 26, 2002, by and between Evans   Sutherland
  Computer Corporation and David H. Bateman, filed herein.  

Other material contracts  

10.14  

Confidential Settlement
  Agreement and Mutual Release, dated December 28, 2005, by and between
  Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation and Federal Insurance
  Company, filed as Exhibit 10.21 to Evans   Sutherland Computer
  Corporation s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005,
  and incorporated herein by reference.  

10.15  

Asset Purchase
  Agreement, dated February 7, 2006, by and between Evans  
  Sutherland Computer Corporation and Rockwell Collins, Inc. filed as
  Exhibit 10.1 to Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation s
  Form 8-K filed February 9, 2006, and incorporated herein by
  this reference.  

70     

10.16 

Stock Purchase
  Agreement, dated February 7, 2006, by and among Evans  
  Sutherland Computer Corporation, Spitz, Inc., and Transnational
  Industries, Inc. filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Evans  
  Sutherland Computer Corporation s Form 8-K filed February 9,
  2006, and incorporated herein by this reference.  

10.17  

Line of Credit
  Agreement, dated April 28, 2006, between Evans   Sutherland
  Computer Corporation, Spitz, Inc. and First Keystone Bank, filed as
  Exhibit 10.4 to Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation s
  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, and
  incorporated herein by reference.  

10.18  

Line of Credit Note,
  dated April 28, 2006, by and between Evans   Sutherland Computer
  Corporation, Spitz, Inc. and First Keystone Bank, filed here with filed
  as Exhibit 10.6 to Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation s
  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, and
  incorporated herein by reference.  

10.19  

Guaranty, dated
  April 28, 2006, by Evans and Sutherland Computer Corporation, filed as
  Exhibit 10.7 to Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation s
  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, and
  incorporated herein by reference.  

10.20  

Pledge Agreement, dated
  April 28, 2006, by and between Evans   Sutherland Computer
  Corporation, Spitz, Inc. and First Keystone Bank, filed as
  Exhibit 10.8 to Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation s
  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, and
  incorporated herein by reference.  

10.21  

Security Agreement,
  dated April 28, 2006, by and between Spitz, Inc., filed here with
  filed as Exhibit 10.9 to Evans   Sutherland Computer
  Corporation s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006,
  and incorporated herein by reference.  

10.22  

Open-end Mortgage and
  Security Agreement, dated April 28, 2006, by and between
  Spitz, Inc., filed as Exhibit 10.10 to Evans   Sutherland
  Computer Corporation s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
  June 30, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.  

10.23  

First Modification Agreement
  to Line of Credit Agreements, dated July 28, 2006, by and between
  Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation, Spitz, Inc. and First
  Keystone Bank, filed as Exhibit 10.11 to Evans   Sutherland
  Computer Corporation s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
  2006, and incorporated herein by reference.  

10.24  

Credit Agreement between
  Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation and Wells Fargo Bank,
  National Association effective December 1, 2006, filed herein.  

10.25  

Mortgage Note dated
  January 14, 2004, of Transnational Industries, Inc. and
  Spitz, Inc. to First Keystone Bank filed herein.  

10.26  

Open-End Mortgage and
  Security Agreement dated January 14, 2004, between Spitz, Inc. and
  First Keystone Bank filed herein.  

10.27  

Loan Agreement dated as
  January 14, 2004, between First Keystone Bank, Transnational
  Industries, Inc. and Spitz, Inc filed herein.  

71     

10.28 

First Modification
  Agreement to Mortgage Loan Agreements, dated March 30 2007, by and
  between Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation, Spitz, Inc. and
  First Keystone Bank, filed herein.  

10.29  

Second Modification
  Agreement to Line of Credit Agreements, dated March 30 2007, by and
  between Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation, Spitz, Inc.
  and First Keystone Bank, filed herein.  

10.30  

Guaranty, dated
  March 30, 2007 by Evans and Sutherland Computer Corporation, filed
  herein.  

Letter re change in
  certifying accountant  

16.1  

Letter from KPMG, LLP to
  the United States Securities and Exchange Commission dated October 12,
  2006, filed as Exhibit 16.1 to Evans   Sutherland Computer
  Corporation s Form 8-K filed October 12, 2006, and
  incorporated herein by this reference herein.  

Subsidiaries of the
  registrant  

21.1  

Subsidiaries of
  Registrant, filed herein.  

Consent of experts and
  counsel  

23.1  

Consent of Current
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, filed herein.  

23.2  

Consent of Prior
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, filed herein  

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications  

31.1  

Certification of Chief
  Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and
  Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended,
  filed herein.  

31.2  

Certification of Chief
  Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and
  Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended,
  filed herein.  

Section 1350 Certifications  

32.1  

Certification of Chief
  Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
  1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
  2002, filed herein.  

TRADEMARKS USED IN
THIS FORM 10-K     

  E S, ESLP, and Digistar are trademarks or
registered trademarks of Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation. All
other product, service, or trade names or marks are the properties of their
respective owners.  

72  

SIGNATURES     

  Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

EVANS   SUTHERLAND COMPUTER CORPORATION  

By  

/s/ DAVID H. BATEMAN  

David H. Bateman  

Chief Executive Officer and Director   

March 30, 2007  

  Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.  

Signature   

Title   

Date   

/s/      DAVID
  H. BATEMAN  

Chief
  Executive Officer 
  and Director  

March 30, 2007  

David H. Bateman  

(Principal
  Executive Officer)  

/s/      PAUL L. DAILEY  

Chief Financial Officer 
  (Principal Financial Officer and  

March 30,
  2007  

Paul L. Dailey  

Principal
  Accounting Officer)  

/s/      DAVID J. COGHLAN  

Chairman of the Board  

March 30,
  2007  

David J. Coghlan  

/s/      WILLIAM SCHNEIDER, JR.  

Director  

March 30,
  2007  

William
  Schneider, Jr.  

/s/      JAMES P. MCCARTHY  

Director  

March 30,
  2007  

James P. McCarthy  

73  

<EX-10.13>
 2
 a07-5744_1ex10d13.htm
 EX-10.13

EXHIBIT
10.13   

   EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT   

  THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (the   Agreement  ) is
made and entered into as of the 26th day of August, 2002, by and between EVANS
  SUTHERLAND COMPUTER CORPORATION, a Utah corporation (the   Company  )
and David H. Bateman (the   Executive  ).  

  W I T N E S S E T H:  

  WHEREAS, the Executive has been providing services to
the Company in an executive capacity and desires to continue to provide such
services;  

  WHEREAS, the Company desires to have the benefit of
the Executive s efforts and services;  

  WHEREAS, the Company and Executive desire to terminate
all prior employment agreements with the Company, if any; and  

  WHEREAS, the Company has determined that it is
appropriate and in the best interests of the Company to provide to the
Executive protection in the event of certain terminations of the Executive s
employment relationship with the Company in accordance with the terms and
conditions contained herein and the Executive desires to have such protection.  

  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and
of the mutual covenants and agreements hereinafter set forth, the Company and
the Executive hereto mutually covenant and agree as follows:  

  1.                  DEFINITIONS. 

  Whenever used in this Agreement, the following terms
shall have the meanings set forth below:  

  (a)                Accrued Benefits  
shall mean the amount equal to the sum of the following to the extent not
previously paid: 

  (i)               All salary earned or
accrued through the Termination Date; 

  (ii)              Reimbursement pursuant
to Section 6(d) for any and all monies advanced in connection with the
Executive s employment for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by the
Executive through the Termination Date; 

  (iii)             Any and all other cash
benefits of deferred compensation plans previously earned through the Termination
Date unless deferred at the election of 

the Executive for payment
at another time or the applicable deferred compensation plan provides for
payment at another time;  

  (iv)             The full amount of any
bonus earned in a prior period and payable to the Executive in accordance with
Section 6(b) herein, subject to the limitations in Section 10 and Section 12;
and 

  (v)              All
other payments and benefits to which the Executive may be entitled under the
terms of any benefit plan of the Company, which as of the Termination Date, is
applicable to all regular full-time employees of the Company generally. 

  (b)                Act   shall mean
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; 

  (c)                Affiliate  
shall have the same meaning as given to that term in Rule 12b-2 of Regulation
12B promulgated under the Act; 

  (d)                Base Period Income  
shall be an amount equal to the Executive s  annualized includable compensation 
for the  base period  as defined in Sections 280G(d)(1) and (2) of the Code and
the regulations adopted thereunder; 

  (e)                Beneficial Owner  
shall have the same meaning as given to that term in Rule 13d-3 of the Act,
provided that any pledgee of Company voting securities shall not be deemed to
be the Beneficial Owner thereof prior to its disposition of, or acquisition of
voting rights with respect to, such securities; 

  (f)                 Board   shall
mean the Board of Directors of the Company; 

  (g)                Cause   shall
mean any of the following: 

  (i)               The engaging by the
Executive in fraudulent conduct, as evidenced by a determination in a binding
and final judgment, order or decree of a court or administrative agency of
competent jurisdiction, in effect after exhaustion or lapse of all rights of
appeal, in an action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal,
administrative or investigative, which the Chief Executive Officer of the
Company determines, in his sole discretion, has a significant adverse impact on
the Company or on the performance of the Executive s duties to the Company; 

  (ii)              Conviction of a felony,
as evidenced by a binding and final judgment, order or decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction, in effect after exhaustion or lapse of all rights of
appeal, which the Chief Executive Officer of the Company determines, in his
sole discretion, has a significant adverse impact on the Company or on the
performance of the Executive s duties to the Company; 

  (iii)             Neglect or refusal by
the Executive to perform the Executive s duties or responsibilities; or 

2     

(iv)             A significant violation
by the Executive of the Company s established policies and procedures; 

  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Cause shall not exist
under Sections 1(g)(iii) and (iv) herein unless the Company furnishes written
notice to the Executive of the specific offending conduct and the Executive
fails to correct such offending conduct within the thirty (30) day period
commencing on the receipt of such notice.  

  (h)                Change of Control  
shall mean a change in ownership or managerial control of the stock, assets or
business of the Company resulting from one or more of the following
circumstances: 

  (i)               A change of control of
the Company, of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to
Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Act, or any
successor regulation of similar import, regardless of whether the Company is
subject to such reporting requirement; 

  (ii)              A change in ownership
of the Company through a transaction or series of transactions, such that any
Person or Persons (other than any current officer of the Company or member of
the Board) become(s), in the aggregate, the Beneficial Owner(s), directly or
indirectly, of securities of the Company representing thirty percent (30%) or
more of the Company s then outstanding securities; 

  (iii)             Any consolidation or
merger of the Company in which the Company is not the continuing or surviving
corporation or pursuant to which shares of the common stock of the Company
would be converted into cash (other than cash attributable to dissenters 
rights), securities or other property provided by a Person or Persons other
than the Company, other than a consolidation or merger of the Company in which
the holders of the common stock of the Company immediately prior to the
consolidation or merger have approximately the same proportionate ownership of
common stock of the surviving corporation immediately after the consolidation
or merger; 

  (iv)             The shareholders of the
Company approve a sale, transfer, liquidation or other disposition of all or
substantially all of the assets of the Company to a Person or Persons; 

  (v)              During any period of
two (2) consecutive years, individuals who, at the beginning of such period,
constituted the Board of Directors of the Company cease, for any reason, to
constitute at least a majority thereof, unless the election or nomination for
election of each new director was approved by the vote of at least two-thirds
(2/3) of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning
of the period; 

  (vi)             The filing of a
proceeding under Chapter 7 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code (or any successor or
other statute of similar import) for liquidation with respect to the Company;
or 

3     

(vii)            The filing of a
proceeding under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code (or any successor or
other statute of similar import) for reorganization with respect to the Company
if in connection with any such proceeding, this Agreement is rejected, or a
plan of reorganization is approved an element of which plan entails the
liquidation of all or substantially all the assets of the Company. 

  A  Change of Control  shall be deemed to occur on the
actual date on which any of the foregoing circumstances shall occur; provided,
however, that in connection with a  Change of Control  specified in Section
1(h)(vii), a  Change of Control  shall be deemed to occur on the date of the
filing of the relevant proceeding under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy
Code (or any successor or other statute of similar import).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a  Change of
Control  shall not include any transaction that constitutes a  Rule 13e-3
transaction  under Rule 13e-3 of the Act or an  issuer tender offer  under Rule
13e-4 of the Act.  

  (i)                 Change of Control
Period   shall mean the period commencing 180 days immediately prior to the
date a Change of Control is deemed to occur pursuant to Section 1(h), herein,
and ending on the second anniversary of such date; 

  (j)                 Code   shall
mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time; 

  (k)                Disability  
shall mean a physical or mental condition whereby the Executive is unable to
perform on a full-time basis the customary duties of the Executive under this
Agreement; 

  (l)                 Federal Short
Term-Rate   shall mean the rate defined in Section 1274(d)(1)(C)(i) of the
Code; 

  (m)               Good Reason  
shall mean any of the following: 

  (i)               The required
relocation of the Executive, without the Executive s consent, to an employment
location which is more than seventy-five (75) miles from the Executive s
employment location on the day preceding the date of this Agreement; or 

  (ii)              Breach or violation of
any material provision of this Agreement by the Company, which is not remedied
within five business days following notice to the Company by the Executive. 

  (n)                Good Reason During
a Change of Control   shall mean any of the following events occurring
during a Change of Control Period: 

  (i)               The required
relocation of the Executive, without the Executive s consent, to an employment
location which is more than seventy-five (75) miles from the Executive s
employment location on the day preceding the date of this Agreement; 

4     

(ii)              The removal of the
Executive from or any failure to reelect the Executive to any of the positions
held by the Executive during the 180-day period immediately preceding the
Change of Control Period, except in the event that such removal or failure to
reelect relates to the termination by the Company of the Executive s employment
for Cause or by reason of death, Disability or voluntary retirement; 

  (iii)             A significant adverse
change, without the Executive s written consent, in the nature or scope of the
Executive s authority, powers, functions, duties or responsibilities that
existed during the 180-day period immediately preceding the Change of Control
Period, or a material reduction in the level of support services, staff,
secretarial and other assistance, office space and accoutrements available to a
level below that which was provided to the Executive during the 180-day period
immediately preceding the Change of Control Period, and that which is necessary
to perform any duties assigned to the Executive during the 180-day period
immediately preceding the Change of Control Period; or 

  (iv)             Breach or violation of
any material provision of this Agreement by the Company, which is not remedied
within five business days following notice to the Company by the Executive; 

  (o)                Gross
Income   shall mean the Executive s current calendar year targeted
compensation under Sections 6(a)-(b) of this Agreement; 

  (p)                Notice of
Termination   shall mean the notice described in Section 14 herein; 

  (q)                Person   shall
mean any individual, partnership, joint venture, association, trust,
corporation or other entity, other than an employee benefit plan of the Company
or an entity organized, appointed or established pursuant to the terms of any
such benefit plan; 

  (r)                 Termination Date  
shall mean, except as otherwise provided in Section 14 herein, 

  (i)               The Executive s date
of death; 

  (ii)              Thirty (30) days after
the delivery of the Notice of Termination terminating the Executive s
employment on account of Disability pursuant to Section 9 herein, unless the
Executive returns on a full-time basis to the performance of his or her duties
prior to the expiration of such period; 

  (iii)             Thirty (30) days after
the delivery of the Notice of Termination if the Executive s employment is
terminated by the Executive voluntarily; 

5     

(iv)             Thirty (30) days after
the delivery of the Notice of Termination if the Executive s employment is
terminated by the Company for any reason other than death or Disability; or 

  (v)              The date the Executive
is terminated for Cause. 

  (s)                Termination Payment  
shall mean the payment described in Section 13 herein; 

  (t)                 Total Payments  
shall mean the sum of the Termination Payment and any other  payments in the
nature of compensation  (as defined in Section 280G of the Code and the
regulations adopted thereunder) to or for the benefit of the Executive, the
receipt of which is contingent on a Change of Control and to which Section 280G
of the Code applies. 

  2.                  EMPLOYMENT. 

  The Company hereby agrees to employ the Executive and
the Executive hereby agrees to serve the Company, on the terms and conditions
set forth herein.  

  3.                  TERM. 

  The employment of the Executive by the Company
pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement shall commence on the date hereof
and end on that date employment of the Executive is terminated pursuant to the
terms and conditions of either Section 8, 9, 10, 11 or 12, herein.  

  4.                  POSITIONS
AND DUTIES. 

  The Executive shall serve as Vice President, Business
Operations of the Company and in such additional capacities as set forth in
Section 7 herein.  In connection with the
foregoing positions, the Executive shall have such duties, responsibilities and
authority as may from time to time be assigned to the Executive by the Chief
Executive Officer.  The Executive shall
devote substantially all the Executive s working time and efforts to the
business and affairs of the Company.  The
Chief Executive Officer, in his or her sole discretion, may alter, modify, or
change the Executive s duties, offices, positions, responsibilities and
obligations set forth in this Agreement at any time, consistent with the status
of a senior executive of the Company.  

  5.                  PLACE
OF PERFORMANCE. 

  In connection with the Executive s employment by the
Company, the Executive shall be based at the principal executive offices of the
Company in Salt Lake City, Utah except for required travel on Company business.  

  6.                  COMPENSATION
AND RELATED MATTERS. 

  (a)               Salary .  The Company shall pay to the Executive an
annualized base salary at a rate of $150,045.00 in equal installments as nearly
as practicable on the Company s regular payroll dates, in arrears.  Such annualized base salary may be 

6     

increased from time to
time in accordance with normal business practices of the Company.  The annualized base salary of the Executive
shall not be decreased below its then existing amount during the term of this
Agreement;  

  (b)               MIP and MIP-Q .  Subject to the Company s right to terminate
or amend, at any time with or without notice to the Executive, the Evans  
Sutherland Management Incentive Plan (MIP) and the Evans   Sutherland
Quarterly Management Incentive Plan (MIP-Q), the Executive shall be entitled to
participate in the Evans   Sutherland MIP and MIP-Q as agreed in writing in
a MIP and a MIP-Q document; 

  (c)               Executive
Savings Plan .  Subject to the Company s
right to terminate or amend, at any time with or without notice to the
Executive, the Company s Executive Savings Plan, the Executive shall be
entitled to participate in the Executive Savings Plan according to the terms
and conditions of the Executive Savings Plan. 

  (d)               Expenses .  The Executive shall be entitled to receive
prompt reimbursement for all reasonable expenses incurred by the Executive in
performing services hereunder, including all expenses for travel and living
expenses while away from home on business or at the request of and in the
service of the Company, provided that such expenses are incurred and accounted
for in accordance with the policies and procedures established by the Company
at the time incurred; 

  (e)               Other Benefits .  The Company shall provide the Executive with
all other benefits normally provided to an employee of the Company similarly
situated to the Executive, including being added as a named officer on the
Company s existing directors  and officers  liability insurance policy; 

  (f)                Vacations .  The Executive shall be entitled to the number
of vacation days in each calendar year, and to compensation in respect of
earned but unused vacation days, determined in accordance with the Company s
vacation plan as in effect from time to time. 
The Executive shall also be entitled to all paid holidays given by the
Company to its executives; and 

  (g)               Services Furnished .  The Company shall furnish the Executive with
office space, and such other facilities and services as shall be suitable to
the Executive s position and adequate for the performance of the Executive s
duties as set forth in Section 4 hereof. 

  7.                  OFFICES. 

  The Executive agrees to serve without additional
compensation, if elected or appointed thereto, in one or more executive offices
of the Company, or any affiliate or subsidiary of the Company, or as a member
of the board of directors of any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company;
provided, however, that the Executive is indemnified for serving in any and all
such capacities on a basis no less favorable than is currently provided in the
Company s bylaws, or otherwise.  

7     

8.                TERMINATION AS A RESULT OF DEATH. 

  If the Executive shall die during the term of this
Agreement, the Executive s employment shall terminate on the Executive s date
of death and the Executive s surviving spouse, or the Executive s estate if the
Executive dies without a surviving spouse, shall be entitled to the Executive s
Accrued Benefits as of the Termination Date and the applicable Termination
Payment.  

  9.                  TERMINATION
FOR DISABILITY. 

  If, as a result of the Executive s Disability, the
Executive shall have been unable to perform the Executive s duties hereunder on
a full-time basis for four (4) consecutive months and within thirty (30) days
after the Company provides the Executive with a Termination Notice, the
Executive shall not have returned to the performance of the Executive s duties
on a full-time basis, the Company may terminate the Executive s employment,
subject to Section 14 herein.  During the
term of the Executive s Disability prior to termination, the Executive shall
continue to receive all salary and other benefits payable under Section 6
herein, including participation in all employee benefit plans, programs and
arrangements in which the Executive was entitled to participate immediately
prior to the Disability; provided, however, that the Executive s continued
participation is permitted under the terms and provisions of such plans,
programs and arrangements.  In the event
that the Executive s participation in any such plan, program or arrangement is
barred as the result of such Disability, the Executive shall be entitled to
receive an amount equal to the contributions, payments, credits or allocations
which would have been paid by the Company to the Executive, to the Executive s
account or on the Executive s behalf under such plans, programs and
arrangements.  In the event the Executive s
employment is terminated on account of the Executive s Disability in accordance
with this Section 9, the Executive shall receive the Executive s Accrued
Benefits as of the Termination Date and shall remain eligible for all benefits
provided by any long-term disability programs of the Company in effect at
the time of such termination.  The
Executive shall also be entitled to the Termination Payment described in
Section 13(a).  

  10.                TERMINATION
FOR CAUSE. 

  If the Executive s employment with the Company is
terminated by the Company for Cause, subject to the procedures set forth in
Section 14 herein, the Executive shall be entitled to receive the Executive s
Accrued Benefits as of the Termination Date, however, the Executive s Accrued
Benefits will not include any amount for bonus under Section 1(a)(iv).  The Executive shall not be entitled to
receipt of any Termination Payment.  

  11.                OTHER
TERMINATION BY COMPANY. 

  If the Executive s employment with the Company is
terminated by the Company other than by reason of death, Disability or Cause,
subject to the procedures set forth in Section 14 herein, the Executive (or in
the event of the Executive s death following the Termination Date, the
Executive s surviving spouse or the Executive s estate if the Executive dies
without a surviving spouse) shall receive the Executive s Accrued Benefits and
the applicable Termination Payment.  The
Executive shall not, in connection with any consideration receivable in  

8     

accordance with this
Section 11, be required to mitigate the amount of such consideration by
securing other employment or otherwise and such consideration shall not be
reduced by reason of the Executive securing other employment or for any other
reason.  

  12.                VOLUNTARY
TERMINATION BY EXECUTIVE. 

  From and after the date of this Agreement, provided
that the Executive furnishes thirty (30) days prior written notice to the
Company, the Executive shall have the right to voluntarily terminate this
Agreement at any time.  If the Executive s
voluntary termination is without Good Reason or without Good Reason During a
Change of Control, the Executive shall receive the Executive s Accrued Benefits
as of the Termination Date and shall not be entitled to any Termination
Payment, however, the Executive s Accrued Benefits will not include any amount
for bonus under Section 1(a)(iv).  If the
Executive s voluntary termination is for Good Reason or Good Reason During a
Change of Control, the Executive (or in the event of the Executive s death
following the Termination Date, the Executive s surviving spouse or the
Executive s estate if the Executive dies without a surviving spouse) shall
receive the Executive s Accrued Benefits and the applicable Termination
Payment.  The Executive shall not, in
connection with any consideration receivable in accordance with this Section
12, be required to mitigate the amount of such consideration by securing other
employment or otherwise and such consideration shall not be reduced by reason
of the Executive securing other employment or for any other reason.  

  13.                TERMINATION
PAYMENT. 

  (a)              If the Executive s
employment is terminated as a result of death or Disability, the Executive
shall receive a Termination Payment equal to one (1.0) times the Executive s
Gross Income.  The Company will also pay
the full medical, dental and vision premiums for continuation coverage under
COBRA for the Executive and dependents who qualify for continuation coverage
under COBRA for one year following Termination Date. 

  (b)              If, prior to a Change
of Control Period, the Executive s employment is terminated by the Executive
for Good Reason or by the Company for any reason other than death, Disability
or Cause, the Termination Payment payable to the Executive by the Company or an
affiliate of the Company shall be equal to one (1.0) times the Executive s
Gross Income.  The Company will pay the
full medical, dental and vision premiums for continuation coverage under COBRA
for the Executive and dependents who qualify for continuation coverage under
COBRA for one year following the Termination Date. 

  (c)              If, during a Change of
Control Period, the Executive s employment is terminated by the Executive for
Good Reason During a Change of Control or by the Company for any reason other
than death, Disability, or Cause, the Termination Payment payable to the
Executive by the Company or an affiliate of the Company shall be one (1.0)
times the Executive s Gross Income.  The
Company will pay the full medical, dental and vision premiums for continuation
coverage under COBRA for the Executive and dependents who qualify for
continuation coverage under COBRA for one (1) year following the Termination
Date. 

9     

(d)              It is the intention of
the Company and the Executive that the benefits under this Agreement shall be
capped such that no portion of the Termination Payment and any other  payments
in the nature of compensation  (as defined in Section 280G of the Code and the
regulations adopted thereunder) to or for the benefit of the Executive under
this Agreement, or under any other agreement, plan or arrangement, shall be
deemed to be an  excess parachute payment  as defined in Section 280G of the
Code.  It is agreed that the present
value of the Total Payments shall not exceed an amount equal to two and
ninety-nine hundredths (2.99) times the Executive s Base Period Income, which
is the maximum amount which the Executive may receive without becoming subject
to the tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code or which the Company may pay
without loss of deduction under Section 280G(a) of the Code.  Present value for purposes of this Agreement
shall be calculated in accordance with the regulations issued under Section
280G of the Code.  Within sixty (60) days
following delivery of the Notice of Termination or notice by the Company to the
Executive of its belief that there is a payment or benefit due the Executive
which will result in an excess parachute payment as defined in Section 280G of
the Code, the Executive and the Company shall, at the Company s expense, obtain
such opinions as more fully described hereafter, which need not be unqualified,
of legal counsel and certified public accountants or a firm of recognized
executive compensation consultants.  The
Executive shall select said legal counsel, certified public accountants and
executive compensation consultants; provided, however, that if the Company does
not accept one (1) or more of the parties selected by the Executive, the
Company shall provide the Executive with the names of such legal counsel,
certified public accountants and/or executive compensation consultants as the
Company may select; provided, further, however, that if the Executive does not
accept the party or parties selected by the Company, the legal counsel,
certified public accountants and/or executive compensation consultants selected
by the Executive and the Company, respectively, shall select the legal counsel,
certified public accountants and/or executive compensation consultants, whichever
is applicable, who shall provide the opinions required by this Section
13(d).  The opinions required hereunder
shall set forth (a) the amount of the Base Period Income of the Executive, (b)
the present value of Total Payments and (c) the amount and present value of any
excess parachute payments.  In the event
that such opinions determine that there would be an excess parachute payment,
the Termination Payment or any other payment determined by such counsel to be
includable in Total Payments shall be reduced or eliminated as specified by the
Executive in writing delivered to the Company within thirty (30) days of his or
her receipt of such opinions or, if the Executive fails to so notify the
Company, then as the Company shall reasonably determine, so that under the
bases of calculation set forth in such opinions there will be no excess
parachute payment.  The provisions of
this Section 13(d), including the calculations, notices and opinions provided
for herein shall be based upon the conclusive presumption that the compensation
and other benefits, including but not limited to the Gross Income, earned on or
after the date of a Change of Control by the Executive pursuant to the Company s
compensation programs if such payments would have been made in the future in
any event, even though the timing of such payment is triggered by the Change of
Control, are reasonable compensation for services rendered prior to the Change
of Control; provided, however, that in the event legal counsel so requests in
connection with the opinion required by this Section 13(d), a firm of
recognized 

10     

executive compensation
consultants, selected by the Executive and the Company pursuant to the
procedures set forth above, shall provide an opinion, upon which such legal
counsel may rely, as to the reasonableness of any item of compensation as
reasonable compensation for services rendered prior to the Change of Control by
the Executive.  In the event that the
provisions of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code are repealed without
succession, this Section 13(d) shall be of no further force or effect.  

  (e)              The Termination Payment
shall be payable as follows: 

  (i)               In the event the
Executive s Termination Date is during a Change of Control Period, any
Termination Payment shall be paid to the Executive in a lump sum not later than
ten (10) days following the Executive s Termination Date.  Such lump sum payment shall not be reduced by
any present value, interest rate, or similar factor.  Further, the Executive shall not be required
to mitigate the amount of such payment by securing other employment or
otherwise and such payment shall not be reduced by reason of the Executive
securing other employment or for any other reason. 

  (ii)              In the event the
Executive s Termination Date is prior to or after a Change of Control Period,
any Termination Payment shall be paid to the Executive in equal installments on
the Company s twenty-six (26) regular bi-weekly paydays over the twelve-month
period following the Termination Date. 
Such payments shall not be reduced or increased by any present value,
interest rate, or similar factor. 
Further, the Executive shall not be required to mitigate the amount of
such payment by securing other employment or otherwise and such payment shall not
be reduced by reason of the Executive securing other employment or for any
other reason. 

  (f)               Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary herein, in no event will a termination of Executive s
employment with the Company be deemed to trigger a right to receive a
Termination Payment if the termination is effected by the mutual agreement of
the Company and Executive to accommodate a reassignment of Executive to an
entity created or acquired by the Company, or to which the Company has
contributed rights to technology, assets or business plans, if at the time of
such termination the Company owns or is acquiring a minimum of a 19% equity
interest in such entity.  In the event of
any such termination, the Executive shall only be entitled to receive the
Executive s Accrued Benefits as of the Termination Date. 

11     

14.                TERMINATION
NOTICE AND PROCEDURE. 

  Any termination by the Company or the Executive of the
Executive s employment during the employment period shall be communicated by
written Notice of Termination ( Notice of Termination ) to the Executive, if
such Notice of Termination is delivered by the Company, and to the Company, if
such Notice of Termination is delivered by the Executive, all in accordance
with the following procedures:  

  (a)              The Notice of
Termination shall indicate the specific termination provision in this Agreement
relied upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and
circumstances alleged to provide a basis for termination; 

  (b)              Any Notice of
Termination by the Company shall be approved by a resolution duly adopted by a
majority of the Board, or a majority of the Board may delegate such authority
to approve any Notice of Termination to the Chief Executive Officer of the
Company; 

  (c)              If the Executive shall
in good faith furnish a Notice of Termination for Good Reason or for Good Reason
During a Change of Control and the Company notifies the Executive that a
dispute exists concerning the existence of Good Reason or Good Reason During a
Change of Control, within the fifteen (15) day period following the Company s
receipt of such notice, the Executive shall continue the Executive s employment
during such dispute.  If it is thereafter
determined that (i) Good Reason or Good Reason During a Change of Control did
exist, the Executive s Termination Date shall be the earlier of (A) the date on
which the dispute is finally determined, either by mutual written agreement of
the parties or pursuant to Section 16, (B) the date of the Executive s death or
(C) one day prior to the second (2nd) anniversary of a Change of Control, if
any, and the Executive s Termination Payment, if applicable, shall reflect
events occurring after the Executive delivered the Executive s Notice of
Termination; or (ii) Good Reason or Good Reason During a Change of Control
did not exist, the employment of the Executive shall continue after such
determination as if the Executive had not delivered the Notice of Termination
asserting Good Reason or Good Reason During a Change of Control; and 

  (d)              If the Executive gives
Notice of Termination of his or her employment for Good Reason or Good Reason
During a Change of Control and a dispute arises as to the existence of Good
Reason or Good Reason During a Change of Control, and the Executive does not
continue his employment during such dispute, and it is finally determined that
the reason for termination set forth in such Notice of Termination did not
exist, if such notice was delivered by the Executive, the Executive shall be
deemed to have voluntarily terminated the Executive s employment other than for
Good Reason or Good Reason During a Change of Control. 

  15.                NON-COMPETE. 

  The Executive hereby agrees that during the term of
this Agreement and for the period of one year    from
the termination hereof, that the Executive will not:  

12     

(a)              Within any jurisdiction
or marketing area in the United States in which the Company or any subsidiary
thereof is doing business, own, manage, operate or control any business of the
type and character engaged in and competitive with the Company or any
subsidiary thereof.  For purposes of this
Section 15, ownership of securities of not in excess of five percent (5%) of
any class of securities of a public company shall not be considered to be
competition with the Company or any subsidiary thereof; or 

  (b)              Within any jurisdiction
or marketing area in the United States in which the Company or any subsidiary
thereof is doing business, act as, or become employed as, an officer, director,
employee, consultant or agent of any business of the type and character engaged
in and competitive with the Company or any of its subsidiaries; or 

  (c)              Solicit any similar
business to that of the Company s for, or sell any products that are in
competition with the Company s products to, any company in the United States,
which is, as of the date hereof or through the Termination Date, a customer or
client of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or was such a customer or
client thereof within two years prior to the Termination Date; or 

  (d)              Solicit the employment
of (i) any employee of the Company or its subsidiaries that is an employee at
anytime during this term of this Agreement or during the one year period
following the termination of this Agreement, or (ii) any former employee of the
Company or its subsidiaries who was employed by the Company or its subsidiaries
during the one (1) year period preceding the Termination Date. 

  For purposes of this Section 15, any business in the
3D visualization simulation market shall be deemed to be competitive with the
Company.  

  16.                REMEDIES
AND JURISDICTION. 

  (a)              The Executive hereby
acknowledges and agrees that a breach of the agreements contained in this
Agreement will cause irreparable harm and damage to the Company, that the
remedy at law for the breach or threatened breach of the agreements set forth
in this Agreement will be inadequate, and that, in addition to all other
remedies available to the Company for such breach or threatened breach
(including, without limitation, the right to recover damages), the Company
shall be entitled to injunctive relief for any breach or threatened breach of
the agreements contained in this Agreement. 
To enforce the provisions of this Section 16(a), the Company may seek
relief from any court with proper jurisdiction and the provisions of Section
16(b)-(d) shall not be applicable for purposes of this Section 16(a). 

  (b)              All claims, disputes
and other matters in question between the parties arising under this Agreement,
shall, unless otherwise provided herein, be decided by binding arbitration
before a single independent arbitrator selected pursuant to Section 16(d).  TO THE EXTENT ALLOWABLE UNDER APPLICABLE LAW,
ALL DISPUTES INVOLVING ALLEGED UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION, BREACH OF
CONTRACT OR POLICY, OR EMPLOYMENT TORT COMMITTED BY THE COMPANY OR A
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE 

13     

COMPANY, INCLUDING CLAIMS
OF VIOLATIONS OF FEDERAL OR STATE DISCRIMINATION STATUTES OR PUBLIC POLICY,
SHALL BE RESOLVED PURSUANT TO THIS POLICY AND THERE SHALL BE NO RECOURSE TO
COURT, WITH OR WITHOUT A JURY TRIAL.  The
arbitration hearing shall occur at a time and place convenient to the parties
in Salt Lake County, Utah, within thirty (30) days of selection or appointment
of the arbitrator.  If the Company has
adopted a policy that is applicable to arbitration with employees, the
arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with said policy to the extent
that the policy is consistent with this Agreement and the Federal Arbitration
Act, 9 U.S.C.    1-16.  If no such
policy has been adopted, the arbitration shall be governed by the National
Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes of AAA in effect on the date of
the first notice of demand for arbitration. 
The arbitrator shall issue written findings of fact and conclusions of
law, and an award, within fifteen (15) days of the date of the hearing unless
the parties otherwise agree.  

  (c)              In cases of breach of
contract or policy, damages shall be limited to contract damages.  In cases of discrimination claims prohibited
by statute, the arbitrator may direct payment consistent with the applicable
statute.  Issues of procedure,
arbitrability, or confirmation of award shall be governed by the Federal
Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C.    1-16, except that court review of the
arbitrator s award shall be that of an appellate court reviewing a decision of
a trial judge sitting without a jury. 

  (d)              The parties shall
select the arbitrator from a panel list made available by the AAA.  If the parties are unable to agree to an
arbitrator within ten (10) days of receipt of a demand for arbitration, the
arbitrator will be chosen by alternatively striking from a list of five (5)
arbitrators obtained by the Company from AAA. 
The Executive shall have the first strike. 

  17.                ATTORNEYS  FEES. 

  In the event that either party hereunder institutes
any legal proceedings in connection with its rights or obligations under this
Agreement, each party in such proceeding shall be responsible for all of its
own costs incurred in connection with such proceeding, including attorneys 
fees and any other fees, expenses, or costs.  

  18.                SUCCESSORS. 

  This Agreement and all rights of the Executive shall
inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive s personal or legal
representatives, estates, executors, administrators, heirs and
beneficiaries.  In the event of the
Executive s death, all amounts payable to the Executive under this Agreement
shall be paid to the Executive s surviving spouse, or the Executive s estate if
the Executive dies without a surviving spouse. 
This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, be binding upon and be
enforceable by, any successor, surviving or resulting corporation or other
entity to which all or substantially all of the business and assets of the
Company shall be transferred whether by merger, consolidation, transfer or
sale.  

14     

19.                ENFORCEMENT. 

  The provisions of this Agreement shall be regarded as
divisible, and if any of said provisions or any part hereof are declared
invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity and
enforceability of the remainder of such provisions or parts hereof and the
applicability thereof shall not be affected thereby.  

  20.                AMENDMENT
OR TERMINATION. 

  This Agreement may not be amended or terminated during
its term, except by written instrument executed by the Company and the
Executive.  

  21.                SURVIVABILITY. 

  The provisions of Sections 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 shall
survive termination of this Agreement.  

  22.                ENTIRE
AGREEMENT. 

  Except for the Confidentiality, Proprietary
Information, and Inventions Agreement between the Executive and the Company,
this Agreement sets forth the entire agreement between the Executive and the
Company with respect to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes all prior
oral or written agreements, negotiations, commitments and understandings with
respect thereto.    Prior
Employment Agreements between the Executive and the Company are hereby terminated
in their entirety and superceded by this Agreement.  

  23.                VENUE;
GOVERNING LAW. 

  This Agreement and the Executive s and Company s
respective rights and obligations hereunder shall be governed by and construed
in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah without giving effect to the
provisions, principles, or policies thereof relating to choice or conflicts of
laws.  

  24.                NOTICE. 

  All notices, requests, instructions or other documents to be given
under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed given (i) three
business days following sending by registered or certified mail, postage
prepaid, (ii) when sent if sent by facsimile; provided, however, that the
facsimile is promptly confirmed by telephone confirmation thereof, (iii) when
delivered, if delivered personally to the intended recipient, and (iv) one
business day following sending by overnight delivery via a national courier
service, and in each case, addressed to a party at the following address for
such party:  

15     

or to such other address as the Company shall have
given to the Executive or, if to the Executive, to such address as the
Executive shall have given to the Company or facsimile number as the party to
whom notice is given may have previously furnished to the other in writing in
the manner set forth above.  

  25.                NO
WAIVER. 

  No waiver by either party at any time of any breach by
the other party of, or compliance with, any condition or provision of this
Agreement to be performed by the other party shall be deemed a waiver of
similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same time or any prior or
subsequent time.  

  26.                HEADINGS. 

  The headings herein contained are for reference only
and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of this
Agreement.  

  27.                COUNTERPARTS. 

  This Agreement may be executed in one or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original but all of which
together will constitute one and the same instrument.  

16     

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this
Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officer, and the Executive has
executed this Agreement, on the date and year first above written.  

COMPANY  

EVANS  
  SUTHERLAND COMPUTER  

CORPORATION,  a Utah Corporation  

By:  

/s/ James R.
  Oyler  

James
  R. Oyler  

President and
  Chief Executive Officer  

EXECUTIVE   

/s/ David H. Bateman  

David
  H. Bateman  

17  

</EX-10.13>

<EX-10.24>
 3
 a07-5744_1ex10d24.htm
 EX-10.24

Exhibit 10.24   

  CREDIT
AGREEMENT  

  THIS
CREDIT AGREEMENT (this  Agreement ) is entered into as of December 1, 2006 by
and between EVANS   SUTHERLAND COMPUTER CORPORATION, a Utah corporation ( Borrower ),
and WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION ( Bank ).  

  RECITALS  

  Borrower
has requested that Bank extend or continue credit to Borrower as described
below, and Bank has agreed to provide such credit to Borrower on the terms and
conditions contained herein.  

  NOW,
THEREFORE, for valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are
hereby acknowledged, Bank and Borrower hereby agree as follows:  

  ARTICLE
I  

  CREDIT
TERMS  

  SECTION
1.1.            STANDBY
LETTER OF CREDIT A.  

  (a)               Standby
Letter of Credit A.  Bank has made or
cause an affiliate to issue a standby letter of credit for the account of
Borrower and for the benefit of Guangdong Provincial Machinery and Electric
Equipment Tendering Co. Guangzhou, China to finance a planetarium playback
system (the  Standby Letter of Credit A ) in the principal amount of Three
Hundred Twenty Eight Thousand Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($328,750.00).  The Standby Letter of Credit A has an
expiration date of March 31, 2007 and is subject to the additional terms of the
Letter of Credit agreement, application and any related documents required by
Bank in connection with the issuance thereof (the  Letter of Credit Agreement ).  

  (b)               Repayment of
Drafts.  Each drawing paid under the
Standby Letter of Credit A shall be repaid by Borrower in accordance with the
provisions of the Letter of Credit Agreement.  

  SECTION
1.2.            STANDBY
LETTER OF CREDIT B  

  (a)               Standby
Letter of Credit B.  Bank has made or
cause an affiliate to issue a standby letter of credit for the account of
Borrower and for the benefit of Nashik Municipal Corporation, Nashik, India to
finance the installation and commissioning of a multi channel digital
planetarium system with science center (the  Standby Letter of Credit B ) in
the principal amount of Twenty Thousand One Hundred Sixty Seven Dollars and
Seventy Five Cents ($20,167.75). The Standby Letter of Credit B has an
expiration date of September 30, 2007 and is subject to the additional terms of
the Letter of Credit agreement, application and any related documents required
by Bank in connection with the issuance thereof (the  Letter of Credit
Agreement ).  

  (b)               Repayment of
Drafts.  Each drawing paid under the
Standby Letter of Credit B shall be repaid by Borrower in accordance with the
provisions of the Letter of Credit Agreement.  

  SECTION
1.3.            STANDBY
LETTER OF CREDIT C.  

  (a)               Standby Letter
of Credit C.  Bank has made or cause an
affiliate to issue a standby letter of credit for the account of Borrower and
for the benefit  

of
Gorakhpur Development Authority Uttah Praadesh, India to finance a contract
between Gorakhpur and Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation (the  Standby
Letter of Credit C ) in the principal amount of One Hundred Fifty Thousand Five
Hundred Seventy Five Dollars ($150,575.00). The Standby Letter of Credit C has
an expiration date of December 1, 2007 and is subject to the additional terms
of the Letter of Credit agreement, application and any related documents
required by Bank in connection with the issuance thereof (the  Letter of Credit
Agreement ).  

  (b)               Repayment of
Drafts.  Each drawing paid under the
Standby Letter of Credit C shall be repaid by Borrower in accordance with the
provisions of the Letter of Credit Agreement.  

  SECTION
1.4.            FOREIGN
EXCHANGE FACILITY.  

  (a)               Foreign
Exchange Facility.  Subject to the terms
and conditions of this Agreement, Bank hereby agrees to make available to
Borrower a facility (the  Foreign Exchange Facility ) under which Bank, from
time to time up to and including December 1, 2007, will enter into foreign
exchange contracts for the account of Borrower for the purchase and/or sale by
Borrower in United States dollars of foreign currencies designated by Borrower;
provided however, that the maximum amount of all outstanding foreign exchange
contracts shall not at any time exceed an aggregate of Two Hundred Thousand
United States Dollars (US$200,000.00). 
No foreign exchange contract shall be executed for a term which extends
beyond December 1, 2007.  Borrower shall
have a  Delivery Limit  under the Foreign Exchange Facility not to exceed at
any time the aggregate principal amount of Six Thousand United States Dollars
(US$6,000.00), which Delivery Limit reflects the maximum principal amount of
Borrower s foreign exchange contracts which may mature during any two (2) day
period.  All foreign exchange
transactions shall be subject to the additional terms of a Foreign Exchange
Agreement dated as of December 1, 2004  ( Foreign
Exchange Agreement ), all terms of which are incorporated herein by this
reference.  

  (b)               Settlement.  Each foreign exchange contract under the
Foreign Exchange Facility shall be settled on its maturity date by Bank s debit
to any deposit account maintained by Borrower with Bank.   

  SECTION
1.5.            INTEREST/FEES.  

  (a)               Interest.     The
outstanding principal balance of each credit subject hereto shall bear
interest, and the amount of each drawing paid under the Standby Letter of
Credit shall bear interest from the date such drawing is paid to the date such
amount is fully repaid by Borrower, at the rate of interest set forth in each
promissory note or other instrument or document executed in connection
therewith.  

  (b)               Letter of
Credit Fees.  Borrower shall pay to Bank
(i) fees upon the issuance of each Performance Letter of Credit, as
determined by Bank, equal to one percent (1%) per annum (computed on the basis
of a 360-day year, actual days elapsed) of the face amount thereof, and
(ii) fees upon the issuance of each Financial Letter of Credit, as
determined by Bank, equal to one percent (1.5%) per annum (computed on the
basis of a 360-day year, actual days elapsed) of the face amount thereof, and
(iii) fees upon the payment or negotiation of each drawing under any
Letter of Credit and fees upon the occurrence of any other activity with
respect to any Letter of Credit (including without limitation, the transfer,
amendment or cancellation of any Letter of Credit) determined in  

accordance
with Bank s standard fees and charges then in effect for such activity.  

  SECTION
1.6.            COLLATERAL.  

  As
security for all indebtedness of Borrower to Bank subject hereto and arising
pursuant to any deposit or treasury management services provided by Bank to
Borrower, Borrower hereby grants to Bank security interests of first priority
in all Borrower s interest in that certain money market savings account
#3801563101, over which Borrower shall have no control (the  Cash Collateral
Account ).  All of the foregoing shall be
evidenced by and subject to the terms of such security agreements, financing
statements, and other documents as Bank shall reasonably require, all in form
and substance satisfactory to Bank. 
Borrower shall reimburse Bank immediately upon demand for all costs and
expenses incurred by Bank in connection with any of the foregoing security.  

  The
balance in the Cash Collateral Account shall at all times be equal to or
greater than one hundred percent (100%) of the aggregate of (i) all issued and
outstanding, unpaid and unreimbursed Letters of Credit, plus (ii) such amounts
as Bank may determine, in its sole discretion, are required to adequately
secure Borrower s liability and performance of any foreign exchange spot
contracts under the Foreign Exchange Facility and deposit and treasury
management services provided to Borrower by Bank.  In the event that the balance of the Cash
Collateral Account, for any reason and at any time, is less than the required
amount, Debtor shall, within five (5) Business Days after Bank gives Borrower
verbal or written notice of such deficiency, deposit additional monies into the
Cash Collateral Account in amounts sufficient to achieve the required amount.  As used herein,  Business Day  means any day
except a Saturday, Sunday or any other day on which commercial banks in Utah
are authorized or required by law to close.  

  All
of the foregoing shall be evidenced by and subject to the terms of such
security agreements, financing statements, deeds or mortgages, and other
documents as Bank shall reasonably require, all in form and substance
satisfactory to Bank.  Borrower shall pay
to Bank immediately upon demand the full amount of all charges, costs and
expenses (to include fees paid to third parties and all allocated costs of Bank
personnel), expended or incurred by Bank in connection with any of the
foregoing security, including without limitation, filing and recording fees and
costs of appraisals, audits and title insurance.  

  ARTICLE
II  

  REPRESENTATIONS
AND WARRANTIES  

  Borrower
makes the following representations and warranties to Bank, which
representations and warranties shall survive the execution of this Agreement
and shall continue in full force and effect until the full and final payment,
and satisfaction and discharge, of all obligations of Borrower to Bank subject
to this Agreement.  

  SECTION
2.1.            LEGAL
STATUS.  Borrower is a corporation duly
organized and existing and in good standing under the laws of Utah, and is
qualified or licensed to do business (and is in good standing as a foreign
corporation, if applicable) in all jurisdictions in which such qualification or
licensing is required or in which the failure to so qualify or to be so
licensed could have a material adverse effect on Borrower.  

SECTION
2.2.            AUTHORIZATION
AND VALIDITY.  This Agreement and each
promissory note, contract, instrument and other document required hereby or at
any time hereafter delivered to Bank in connection herewith (collectively, the  Loan
Documents ) have been duly authorized, and upon their execution and delivery in
accordance with the provisions hereof will constitute legal, valid and binding
agreements and obligations of Borrower or the party which executes the same,
enforceable in accordance with their respective terms.  

  SECTION
2.3.            NO
VIOLATION.  The execution, delivery and
performance by Borrower of each of the Loan Documents do not violate any
provision of any law or regulation, or contravene any provision of the Articles
of Incorporation or By-Laws of Borrower, or result in any breach of or default
under any contract, obligation, indenture or other instrument to which Borrower
is a party or by which Borrower may be bound.  

  SECTION
2.4.            LITIGATION.  There are no pending, or to the best of
Borrower s knowledge threatened, actions, claims, investigations, suits or
proceedings by or before any governmental authority, arbitrator, court or
administrative agency which could have a material adverse effect on the
financial condition or operation of Borrower other than those disclosed by
Borrower to Bank in writing prior to the date hereof.  

  SECTION
2.5.            CORRECTNESS
OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT.  The annual
financial statement of Borrower dated December 31, 2005, and all interim
financial statements delivered to Bank since said date, true copies of which
have been delivered by Borrower to Bank prior to the date hereof, (a) are
complete and correct and present fairly the financial condition of Borrower,
(b) disclose all liabilities of Borrower that are required to be reflected or
reserved against under generally accepted accounting principles, whether
liquidated or unliquidated, fixed or contingent, and (c) have been prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.  Since the dates of such financial statements
there has been no material adverse change in the financial condition of
Borrower, nor has Borrower mortgaged, pledged, granted a security interest in
or otherwise encumbered any of its assets or properties except in favor of Bank
or as otherwise permitted by Bank in writing.  

  SECTION
2.6.            INCOME TAX
RETURNS.  Borrower has no knowledge of
any pending assessments or adjustments of its income tax payable with respect
to any year.  

  SECTION
2.7.            NO
SUBORDINATION.  There is no agreement,
indenture, contract or instrument to which Borrower is a party or by which
Borrower may be bound that requires the subordination in right of payment of
any of Borrower s obligations subject to this Agreement to any other obligation
of Borrower.  

  SECTION
2.8.            PERMITS,
FRANCHISES.  Borrower possesses, and will
hereafter possess, all permits, consents, approvals, franchises and licenses
required and rights to all trademarks, trade names, patents, and fictitious
names, if any, necessary to enable it to conduct the business in which it is
now engaged in compliance with applicable law.  

  SECTION
2.9.            ERISA.  Borrower is in compliance in all material
respects with all applicable provisions of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended or recodified from time to time ( ERISA 
Borrower has not violated any provision of any defined employee pension benefit
plan (as defined in ERISA) maintained or contributed to by Borrower (each, a  

Plan 
no Reportable Event as defined in ERISA has occurred and is continuing with
respect to any Plan initiated by Borrower; Borrower has met its minimum funding
requirements under ERISA with respect to each Plan; and each Plan will be able
to fulfill its benefit obligations as they come due in accordance with the Plan
documents and under generally accepted accounting principles.  

  SECTION
2.10.          OTHER OBLIGATIONS.  Borrower is not in default on any obligation
for borrowed money, any purchase money obligation or any other material lease,
commitment, contract, instrument or obligation.  

  SECTION
2.11.          ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS.  Except as disclosed by Borrower to Bank in
writing prior to the date hereof, Borrower is in compliance in all material
respects with all applicable federal or state environmental, hazardous waste,
health and safety statutes, and any rules or regulations adopted pursuant
thereto, which govern or affect any of Borrower s operations and/or properties,
including without limitation, the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, the Superfund Amendments and
Reauthorization Act of 1986, the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
of 1976, and the Federal Toxic Substances Control Act, as any of the same may
be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time.  None of the operations of Borrower is the
subject of any federal or state investigation evaluating whether any remedial
action involving a material expenditure is needed to respond to a release of
any toxic or hazardous waste or substance into the environment.  Borrower has no material contingent liability
in connection with any release of any toxic or hazardous waste or substance
into the environment.  

  ARTICLE
III  

  CONDITIONS  

  SECTION
3.1.            CONDITIONS
OF INITIAL EXTENSION OF CREDIT.  The
obligation of Bank to extend any credit contemplated by this Agreement is
subject to the fulfillment to Bank s satisfaction of all of the following
conditions:  

  (a)               Approval of
Bank Counsel.  All legal matters
incidental to the extension of credit by Bank shall be satisfactory to Bank s
counsel.  

  (b)               Documentation.  Bank shall have received, in form and
substance satisfactory to Bank, each of the following, duly executed:  

  (i) This Agreement and
each promissory note or other instrument or document required hereby.  

  (ii) Certificate of
Incumbency.  

  (iii) Corporate
Resolution: Borrowing.  

  (iv) S/A; Borrower:
Specific Rights to Payment.  

  (v)
Foreign Exchange Agreement.  

  (vi)              Such other
documents as Bank may require under any other Section of this Agreement.  

  (c)               Financial
Condition.  There shall have been no
material adverse change, as determined by Bank, in the financial condition or
business of Borrower, nor any material decline, as determined by Bank, in the
market value of any collateral required hereunder or a substantial or material
portion of the assets of Borrower.  

(d)               Insurance.  Borrower shall have delivered to Bank
evidence of insurance coverage on all Borrower s property, in form, substance,
amounts, covering risks and issued by companies satisfactory to Bank, and where
required by Bank, with loss payable endorsements in favor of Bank.  

  SECTION
3.2.            CONDITIONS
OF EACH EXTENSION OF CREDIT.  The
obligation of Bank to make each extension of credit requested by Borrower
hereunder shall be subject to the fulfillment to Bank s satisfaction of each of
the following conditions:  

  (a)               Compliance.  The representations and warranties contained
herein and in each of the other Loan Documents shall be true on and as of the
date of the signing of this Agreement and on the date of each extension of
credit by Bank pursuant hereto, with the same effect as though such
representations and warranties had been made on and as of each such date, and
on each such date, no Event of Default as defined herein, and no condition,
event or act which with the giving of notice or the passage of time or both
would constitute such an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be
continuing or shall exist.  

  (b)               Documentation.  Bank shall have received all additional
documents which may be required in connection with such extension of credit.  

  (c)               Additional
Letter of Credit Documentation.  Prior to
the issuance of each Letter of Credit, Bank shall  have received a Letter of Credit Agreement,
properly completed and duly executed by Borrower.  

  ARTICLE
IV  

  AFFIRMATIVE
COVENANTS  

  Borrower
covenants that so long as Bank remains committed to extend credit to Borrower
pursuant hereto, or any liabilities (whether direct or contingent, liquidated
or unliquidated) of Borrower to Bank under any of the Loan Documents remain
outstanding, and until payment in full of all obligations of Borrower subject
hereto, Borrower shall, unless Bank otherwise consents in writing:  

  SECTION
4.1.            PUNCTUAL
PAYMENTS.  Punctually pay all principal,
interest, fees or other liabilities due under any of the Loan Documents at the
times and place and in the manner specified therein.  

  SECTION
4.2.            ACCOUNTING
RECORDS.  Maintain adequate books and
records in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
consistently applied, and permit any representative of Bank, at any reasonable
time, to inspect, audit and examine such books and records, to make copies of
the same, and to inspect the properties of Borrower.  

  SECTION
4.3.            FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS.  Provide to Bank all of the
following, in form and detail satisfactory to Bank:  

  (a)               not later
than 120 days after and as of the end of each fiscal year, an audited financial
statement of Borrower, prepared by a certified public accountant acceptable to
Bank, to include balance sheet, income statement and statement of cash flows;  

  (b)               not later
than 45 days after and as of the end of each quarter, a financial statement of
Borrower, prepared by Borrower, to include balance sheet and income statement;  

(c)               from time to
time such other information as Bank may reasonably request.  

  SECTION
4.4.            COMPLIANCE.  Preserve and maintain all licenses, permits,
governmental approvals, rights, privileges and franchises necessary for the
conduct of its business; and comply with the provisions of all documents
pursuant to which Borrower is organized and/or which govern Borrower s
continued existence and with the requirements of all laws, rules, regulations
and orders of any governmental authority applicable to Borrower and/or its
business.  

  SECTION
4.5.            INSURANCE.  Maintain and keep in force, for each business
in which Borrower is engaged, insurance of the types and in amounts customarily
carried in similar lines of business, including but not limited to fire,
extended coverage, public liability, flood, property damage and workers 
compensation, with all such insurance carried with companies and in amounts
satisfactory to Bank, and deliver to Bank from time to time at Bank s request
schedules setting forth all insurance then in effect.  

  SECTION
4.6.            FACILITIES.  Keep all properties useful or necessary to
Borrower s business in good repair and condition, and from time to time make
necessary repairs, renewals and replacements thereto so that such properties
shall be fully and efficiently preserved and maintained.  

  SECTION
4.7.            TAXES AND
OTHER LIABILITIES.  Pay and discharge
when due any and all indebtedness, obligations, assessments and taxes, both
real or personal, including without limitation federal and state income taxes
and state and local property taxes and assessments, except (a) such as Borrower
may in good faith contest or as to which a bona fide dispute may arise, and (b)
for which Borrower has made provision, to Bank s satisfaction, for eventual
payment thereof in the event Borrower is obligated to make such payment.  

  SECTION
4.8.            LITIGATION.  Promptly give notice in writing to Bank of
any litigation pending or threatened against Borrower.  

  SECTION
4.9.            NOTICE TO
BANK.  Promptly (but in no event more
than five (5) days after the occurrence of each such event or matter) give
written notice to Bank in reasonable detail of: 
(a) the occurrence of any Event of Default, or any condition, event
or act which with the giving of notice or the passage of time or both would
constitute an Event of Default; (b) any change in the name or the
organizational structure of Borrower; (c) the occurrence and nature of any
Reportable Event or Prohibited Transaction, each as defined in ERISA, or any
funding deficiency with respect to any Plan; or (d) any termination or
cancellation of any insurance policy which Borrower is required to maintain, or
any uninsured or partially uninsured loss through liability or property damage,
or through fire, theft or any other cause affecting Borrower s property.  

  ARTICLE
V  

  NEGATIVE
COVENANTS  

  Borrower
further covenants that so long as Bank remains committed to extend credit to
Borrower pursuant hereto, or any liabilities (whether direct or contingent,
liquidated or unliquidated) of Borrower to Bank under any of the Loan Documents
remain outstanding, and until payment in full of all obligations of Borrower
subject hereto, Borrower will not without Bank s prior written consent:  

SECTION
5.1.            USE OF
FUNDS.  Use any of the proceeds of any
credit extended hereunder except for the purposes stated in Article I hereof.  

  SECTION
5.2.            OTHER
INDEBTEDNESS.  Create, incur, assume or
permit to exist any indebtedness or liabilities resulting from borrowings,
loans or advances, whether secured or unsecured, matured or unmatured,
liquidated or unliquidated, joint or several, except (a) the liabilities of
Borrower to Bank, and (b) any other liabilities of Borrower existing as
of, and disclosed to Bank prior to, the date hereof.  

  SECTION
5.3.            MERGER,
CONSOLIDATION, TRANSFER OF ASSETS.  Merge
into or consolidate with any other entity; make any substantial change in the
nature of Borrower s business as conducted as of the date hereof; acquire all
or substantially all of the assets of any other entity; nor sell, lease,
transfer or otherwise dispose of all or a substantial or material portion of
Borrower s assets except in the ordinary course of its business.  

  SECTION
5.4.            LOANS,
ADVANCES, INVESTMENTS.  Make any loans or
advances to or investments in any person or entity, except any of the foregoing
existing as of, and disclosed to Bank prior to, the date hereof.  

  ARTICLE
VI  

  EVENTS
OF DEFAULT  

  SECTION
6.1.            The
occurrence of any of the following shall constitute an  Event of Default  under
this Agreement:  

  (a)               Borrower
shall fail to pay when due any principal, interest, fees or other amounts
payable under any of the Loan Documents.  

  (b)               Any
financial statement or certificate furnished to Bank in connection with, or any
representation or warranty made by Borrower or any other party under this
Agreement or any other Loan Document shall prove to be incorrect, false or
misleading in any material respect when furnished or made.  

  (c)               Any default
in the performance of or compliance with any obligation, agreement or other
provision contained herein or in any other Loan Document (other than those
referred to in subsections (a) and (b) above), and with respect to any such
default which by its nature can be cured, such default shall continue for a
period of twenty (20) days from its occurrence.  

  (d)               Any default
in the payment or performance of any obligation, or any defined event of
default, under the terms of any contract or instrument (other than any of the
Loan Documents) pursuant to which Borrower, any guarantor hereunder or any
general partner or joint venturer in Borrower if a partnership or joint venture
(with each such guarantor, general partner and/or joint venturer referred to
herein as a  Third Party Obligor ) has incurred any debt or other liability to
any person or entity, including Bank.  

  (e)               The filing
of a notice of judgment lien against Borrower or any Third Party Obligor; or
the recording of any abstract of judgment against Borrower or any Third Party
Obligor in any county in which Borrower or such Third Party Obligor has an
interest in real property; or the service of a notice of levy and/or of a writ
of attachment or execution, or other like process,  

against
the assets of Borrower or any Third Party Obligor; or the entry of a judgment
against Borrower or any Third Party Obligor.  

  (f)                Borrower or
any Third Party Obligor shall become insolvent, or shall suffer or consent to
or apply for the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or liquidator of
itself or any of its property, or shall generally fail to pay its debts as they
become due, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors;
Borrower or any Third Party Obligor shall file a voluntary petition in
bankruptcy, or seeking reorganization, in order to effect a plan or other
arrangement with creditors or any other relief under the Bankruptcy Reform Act,
Title 11 of the United States Code, as amended or recodified from time to time
( Bankruptcy Code ), or under any state or federal law granting relief to
debtors, whether now or hereafter in effect; or any involuntary petition or
proceeding pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code or any other applicable state or
federal law relating to bankruptcy, reorganization or other relief for debtors
is filed or commenced against Borrower or any Third Party Obligor, or Borrower
or any Third Party Obligor shall file an answer admitting the jurisdiction of
the court and the material allegations of any involuntary petition; or Borrower
or any Third Party Obligor shall be adjudicated a bankrupt, or an order for
relief shall be entered against Borrower or any Third Party Obligor by any
court of competent jurisdiction under the Bankruptcy Code or any other
applicable state or federal law relating to bankruptcy, reorganization or other
relief for debtors.  

  (g)               There shall
exist or occur any event or condition which Bank in good faith believes
impairs, or is substantially likely to impair, the prospect of payment or
performance by Borrower of its obligations under any of the Loan Documents.  

  (h)               The death or
incapacity of Borrower or any Third Party Obligor if an individual.  The dissolution or liquidation of Borrower or
any Third Party Obligor if a corporation, partnership, joint venture or other
type of entity; or Borrower or any such Third Party Obligor, or any of its
directors, stockholders or members, shall take action seeking to effect the
dissolution or liquidation of Borrower or such Third Party Obligor.  

  (i)                Any change
in ownership of an aggregate of twenty-five percent (25%) or more of the common
stock of Borrower.  

  SECTION
6.2.            REMEDIES.  Upon the occurrence of any Event of
Default:  (a) all indebtedness of
Borrower under each of the Loan Documents, any term thereof to the contrary
notwithstanding, shall at Bank s option and without notice become immediately
due and payable without presentment, demand, protest or notice of dishonor, all
of which are hereby expressly waived by Borrower; (b) the obligation, if
any, of Bank to extend any further credit under any of the Loan Documents shall
immediately cease and terminate; and (c) Bank shall have all rights,
powers and remedies available under each of the Loan Documents, or accorded by
law, including without limitation the right to resort to any or all security
for any credit subject hereto and to exercise any or all of the rights of a
beneficiary or secured party pursuant to applicable law.  All rights, powers and remedies of Bank may
be exercised at any time by Bank and from time to time after the occurrence of
an Event of Default, are cumulative and not exclusive, and shall be in addition
to any other rights, powers or remedies provided by law or equity.  

ARTICLE
VII  

  MISCELLANEOUS  

  SECTION
7.1.            NO WAIVER.  No delay, failure or discontinuance of Bank
in exercising any right, power or remedy under any of the Loan Documents shall
affect or operate as a waiver of such right, power or remedy; nor shall any
single or partial exercise of any such right, power or remedy preclude, waive
or otherwise affect any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of
any other right, power or remedy.  Any
waiver, permit, consent or approval of any kind by Bank of any breach of or
default under any of the Loan Documents must be in writing and shall be
effective only to the extent set forth in such writing.  

  SECTION
7.2.            NOTICES.  All notices, requests and demands which any
party is required or may desire to give to any other party under any provision
of this Agreement must be in writing delivered to each party at the following
address:  

  BORROWER:            EVANS  
SUTHERLAND COMPUTER CORPORATION  

  600
Komas Drive, P.O. Box 58700  

  Salt
Lake City, Utah 84108  

  BANK:       WELLS FARGO
BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION  

  Utah
RCBO  

  299
South Main, 9th Floor  

  Salt
Lake City, Utah 84111  

  or
to such other address as any party may designate by written notice to all other
parties.  Each such notice, request and
demand shall be deemed given or made as follows:  (a) if sent by hand delivery, upon
delivery; (b) if sent by mail, upon the earlier of the date of receipt or
three (3) days after deposit in the U.S. mail, first class and postage prepaid;
and (c) if sent by telecopy, upon receipt.  

  SECTION
7.3.            COSTS,
EXPENSES AND ATTORNEYS  FEES.  Borrower
shall pay to Bank immediately upon demand the full amount of all payments,
advances, charges, costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys  fees (to
include outside counsel fees and all allocated costs of Bank s in-house
counsel), expended or incurred by Bank in connection with (a) the
negotiation and preparation of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents,
Bank s continued administration hereof and thereof, and the preparation of any
amendments and waivers hereto and thereto, (b) the enforcement of Bank s
rights and/or the collection of any amounts which become due to Bank under any
of the Loan Documents, and (c) the prosecution or defense of any action in
any way related to any of the Loan Documents, including without limitation, any
action for declaratory relief, whether incurred at the trial or appellate
level, in an arbitration proceeding or otherwise, and including any of the
foregoing incurred in connection with any bankruptcy proceeding (including
without limitation, any adversary proceeding, contested matter or motion
brought by Bank or any other person) relating to Borrower or any other person
or entity.  

  SECTION
7.4.            SUCCESSORS,
ASSIGNMENT.  This Agreement shall be
binding upon and inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors, administrators,
legal representatives, successors and assigns of the parties; provided however,
that Borrower may not assign or transfer its interests or rights hereunder
without Bank s prior written consent. 
Bank reserves the right to sell, assign, transfer, negotiate or grant
participations in all or any part of, or any interest in, Bank s rights and
benefits under each of the Loan Documents. 
In connection therewith, Bank may disclose all documents and information
which Bank  

now
has or may hereafter acquire relating to any credit subject hereto, Borrower or
its business, or any collateral required hereunder.  

  SECTION
7.5.            ENTIRE
AGREEMENT; AMENDMENT.  This Agreement and
the other Loan Documents constitute the entire agreement between Borrower and
Bank with respect to each credit subject hereto and supersede all prior
negotiations, communications, discussions and correspondence concerning the
subject matter hereof.  This Agreement
may be amended or modified only in writing signed by each party hereto.  

  SECTION
7.6.            NO THIRD
PARTY BENEFICIARIES.  This Agreement is
made and entered into for the sole protection and benefit of the parties hereto
and their respective permitted successors and assigns, and no other person or
entity shall be a third party beneficiary of, or have any direct or indirect
cause of action or claim in connection with, this Agreement or any other of the
Loan Documents to which it is not a party.  

  SECTION
7.7.            TIME.  Time is of the essence of each and every
provision of this Agreement and each other of the Loan Documents.  

  SECTION
7.8.            SEVERABILITY
OF PROVISIONS.  If any provision of this
Agreement shall be prohibited by or invalid under applicable law, such
provision shall be ineffective only to the extent of such prohibition or
invalidity without invalidating the remainder of such provision or any
remaining provisions of this Agreement.  

  SECTION
7.9.            COUNTERPARTS.  This Agreement may be executed in any number
of counterparts, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to
be an original, and all of which when taken together shall constitute one and
the same Agreement.  

  SECTION
7.10.          GOVERNING LAW.  This Agreement shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah.  

  SECTION
7.11.          ARBITRATION.  

  (a)               Arbitration.  The parties hereto agree, upon demand by any
party, to submit to binding arbitration all claims, disputes and controversies
between or among them (and their respective employees, officers, directors,
attorneys, and other agents), whether in tort, contract or otherwise in any way
arising out of or relating to (i) any credit subject hereto, or any of the Loan
Documents, and their negotiation, execution, collateralization, administration,
repayment, modification, extension, substitution, formation, inducement,
enforcement, default or termination; or (ii) requests for additional credit.  

  (b)               Governing
Rules.  Any arbitration proceeding will
(i) proceed in a location in Utah selected by the American Arbitration
Association ( AAA  (ii) be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (Title 9 of
the United States Code), notwithstanding any conflicting choice of law
provision in any of the documents between the parties; and (iii) be conducted
by the AAA, or such other administrator as the parties shall mutually agree
upon, in accordance with the AAA s commercial dispute resolution procedures,
unless the claim or counterclaim is at least $1,000,000.00 exclusive of claimed
interest, arbitration fees and costs in which case the arbitration shall be
conducted in accordance with the AAA s optional procedures for large, complex
commercial disputes (the commercial dispute resolution procedures or the
optional procedures for large, complex commercial disputes to be referred to
herein, as applicable, as the  Rules ).  

If
there is any inconsistency between the terms hereof and the Rules, the terms
and procedures set forth herein shall control. 
Any party who fails or refuses to submit to arbitration following a
demand by any other party shall bear all costs and expenses incurred by such
other party in compelling arbitration of any dispute.  Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to
be a waiver by any party that is a bank of the protections afforded to it under
12 U.S.C.  91 or any similar applicable state law.  

  (c)               No Waiver of
Provisional Remedies, Self-Help and Foreclosure.  The arbitration requirement does not limit
the right of any party to (i) foreclose against real or personal property
collateral; (ii) exercise self-help remedies relating to collateral or proceeds
of collateral such as setoff or repossession; or (iii) obtain provisional or
ancillary remedies such as replevin, injunctive relief, attachment or the
appointment of a receiver, before during or after the pendency of any
arbitration proceeding.  This exclusion
does not constitute a waiver of the right or obligation of any party to submit
any dispute to arbitration or reference hereunder, including those arising from
the exercise of the actions detailed in sections (i), (ii) and (iii) of this
paragraph.  

  (d)               Arbitrator
Qualifications and Powers.  Any
arbitration proceeding in which the amount in controversy is $5,000,000.00 or
less will be decided by a single arbitrator selected according to the Rules,
and who shall not render an award of greater than $5,000,000.00.  Any dispute in which the amount in
controversy exceeds $5,000,000.00 shall be decided by majority vote of a panel
of three arbitrators; provided however, that all three arbitrators must
actively participate in all hearings and deliberations.  The arbitrator will be a neutral attorney licensed
in the State of Utah or a neutral retired judge of the state or federal
judiciary of Utah, in either case with a minimum of ten years experience in the
substantive law applicable to the subject matter of the dispute to be
arbitrated.  The arbitrator will
determine whether or not an issue is arbitratable and will give effect to the
statutes of limitation in determining any claim.  In any arbitration proceeding the arbitrator
will decide (by documents only or with a hearing at the arbitrator s discretion)
any pre-hearing motions which are similar to motions to dismiss for failure to
state a claim or motions for summary adjudication.  The arbitrator shall resolve all disputes in
accordance with the substantive law of Utah and may grant any remedy or relief
that a court of such state could order or grant within the scope hereof and
such ancillary relief as is necessary to make effective any award.  The arbitrator shall also have the power to
award recovery of all costs and fees, to impose sanctions and to take such
other action as the arbitrator deems necessary to the same extent a judge could
pursuant to the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, the Utah Rules of Civil
Procedure or other applicable law. 
Judgment upon the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any
court having jurisdiction.  The
institution and maintenance of an action for judicial relief or pursuit of a
provisional or ancillary remedy shall not constitute a waiver of the right of
any party, including the plaintiff, to submit the controversy or claim to
arbitration if any other party contests such action for judicial relief.  

  (e)               Discovery.  In any arbitration proceeding, discovery will
be permitted in accordance with the Rules. 
All discovery shall be expressly limited to matters directly relevant to
the dispute being arbitrated and must be completed no later than 20 days before
the hearing date.  Any requests for an
extension of the discovery periods, or any discovery disputes, will be subject to
final determination by the arbitrator upon a showing that the request for
discovery is essential for the party s presentation and that no alternative
means for obtaining information is available.  

(f)                Class
Proceedings and Consolidations.  No party
hereto shall be entitled to join or consolidate disputes by or against others
in any arbitration, except parties who have executed any Loan Document, or to
include in any arbitration any dispute as a representative or member of a
class, or to act in any arbitration in the interest of the general public or in
a private attorney general capacity.  

  (g)               Payment Of
Arbitration Costs And Fees.  The
arbitrator shall award all costs and expenses of the arbitration proceeding.  

  (h)               Real
Property Collateral; Judicial Reference. 
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, no dispute shall be
submitted to arbitration if the dispute concerns indebtedness secured directly
or indirectly, in whole or in part, by any real property unless (i) the holder
of the mortgage, lien or security interest specifically elects in writing to
proceed with the arbitration, or (ii) all parties to the arbitration waive any
rights or benefits that might accrue to them by virtue of the single action
rule statute of Utah, thereby agreeing that all indebtedness and obligations of
the parties, and all mortgages, liens and security interests securing such
indebtedness and obligations, shall remain fully valid and enforceable.  If any such dispute is not submitted to
arbitration, the dispute shall be referred to a master in accordance with Utah
Rule of Civil Procedure 53, and this general reference agreement is intended to
be specifically enforceable.  A master
with the qualifications required herein for arbitrators shall be selected
pursuant to the AAA s selection procedures. 
Judgment upon the decision rendered by a master shall be entered in the
court in which such proceeding was commenced in accordance with Utah Rule of
Civil Procedure 53(e).  

  (i)                Miscellaneous.  To the maximum extent practicable, the AAA,
the arbitrators and the parties shall take all action required to conclude any
arbitration proceeding within 180 days of the filing of the dispute with the
AAA.  No arbitrator or other party to an
arbitration proceeding may disclose the existence, content or results thereof,
except for disclosures of information by a party required in the ordinary
course of its business or by applicable law or regulation.  If more than one agreement for arbitration by
or between the parties potentially applies to a dispute, the arbitration
provision most directly related to the Loan Documents or the subject matter of
the dispute shall control.  This
arbitration provision shall survive termination, amendment or expiration of any
of the Loan Documents or any relationship between the parties.  

  IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed
as of the day and year first written above.  

EVANS   SUTHERLAND
  COMPUTER 

WELLS FARGO BANK,  

CORPORATION  

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION  

By:  

/s/ Paul L.
  Dailey  

By:  

/s/ Gary Rigby  

Title: Chief
  Financial Officer  

Gary Rigby, Relationship Manager  

</EX-10.24>

<EX-10.25>
 4
 a07-5744_1ex10d25.htm
 EX-10.25

EXHIBIT
10.25   

  THIS MORTGAGE IS AN
OPEN-END MORTGAGE AND SECURES FUTURE ADVANCES  

  (All notices to be
given to Mortgagee pursuant to 
42 Pa. C.S.A. 8143 shall be given as set forth 
in Paragraph 25 of this Mortgage.)  

  OPEN-END MORTGAGE
AND SECURITY AGREEMENT  

  THIS OPEN-END MORTGAGE
AND SECURITY AGREEMENT (this  Mortgage  made this 14th day of January, 2004, by
and between Spitz, Inc., a Delaware corporation, with an address of P.O. Box
198, Route 1, Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania 19317 (the Mortgagor), and FIRST KEYSTONE
BANK (Mortgagee), a federally chartered stock savings bank organized and existing
under the laws of the United States of America, at Mortgagee s office located at
22 West State Street, Media, Pennsylvania, 19063.  

  WITNESSETH:  

  WHEREAS, this
Mortgage is an Open-End Mortgageas set forth in 42 Pa. C.S.A. 8143 and secures obligations
of Mortgagor and Transnational, Inc. (TN) to Mortgagee up to a maximum amount
of principal indebtedness outstanding at any time of Three Million Two Hundred Thousand
($3,200,000.00) Dollars together with, but not limited to, advances for the payment
of taxes and municipal assessments, maintenance charges, insurance premiums, costs
incurred for the protection of the Mortgaged Property (hereinafter defined) or
the lien of this Mortgage, expenses incurred by Mortgagee by reason of default
by Mortgagor under this Mortgage the Note (hereinafter defined), and all other
sums due hereunder or secured hereby, plus accrued and unpaid interest due
under the Note; and  

  WHEREAS, Mortgagor
and TN, as part of the foregoing obligations, has executed and delivered to
Mortgagee its Mortgage Note, dated even date herewith (the Note), evidencing Mortgagor s
and TN s indebtedness to Mortgagee in the principal amount of Three Million Two
Hundred Thousand ($3,200,000.00) Dollars in accordance with a certain Commitment
Letter from Mortgagee to Mortgagor and TN, dated December 19, 2003, (the Commitment
Letter), and a certain Loan Agreement (the Loan Agreement), dated even date herewith,
by and between Mortgagor, TN and Mortgagee, together with interest thereon
payable at the rate and times, in the manner, and according to the terms and
conditions specified in the Note which provides for interest rate adjustments
based on a formula therein set forth; and  

  WHEREAS, all of
the terms, conditions and provisions of the Note, the Commitment Letter and the
Loan Agreement are by reference incorporated herein as if fully set forth; and  

  WHEREAS, Mortgagor
has duly executed and delivered this Mortgage to secure all of Mortgagor s and
TN s obligations under the Note and the Loan Agreement.  

1     

NOW, THEREFORE, in
consideration of the aforesaid indebtedness, and to secure the payment of all
sums due or to become due under the Note, under the Commitment Letter, under the
Loan Agreement, and under the terms of this Mortgage, and to secure the payment
of all sums advanced by Mortgagee to Mortgagor and TN, as well as to secure the
performance and observance of all of the terms, conditions and provisions of
the Note, the Commitment Letter, the Loan Agreement, this Mortgage, the
Assignment of Rents (hereinafter defined), the Environmental Indemnity Agreement
(hereinafter defined) and all other agreements and instruments given by or on behalf
of Mortgagor and TN to Mortgagee in connection with the Note, the Commitment Letter,
the Loan Agreement, or this Mortgage (collectively the Loan Documents), Mortgagor
has granted, bargained, conveyed, sold, aliened, enfeoffed, released, confirmed
and mortgaged, and by these presents does hereby grant, bargain, convey, sell, alien,
enfeoff, release, confirm and mortgage unto Mortgagee, its successors and assigns
all that certain parcel of real property known as Route 1, Chadds Ford Township,
Delaware County, Pennsylvania, being Folio No. 04-00-00034-02, and more
specifically described on the metes and bounds legal description, attached hereto,
made a part of hereof, and labeled Exhibit A (the Real Estate).  

  TOGETHER WITH all
of Mortgagor s right, title and interest now owned or hereafter acquired in:  

  (i)  All buildings, structures and improvements of
every kind and description now or hereafter erected or placed on the Real
Estate.  

  (ii)  All tenements, hereditaments, appurtenances and
all the estates and rights of Mortgagor in and to the Real Estate or any part
thereof.  

  (iii)  All streets, roads, passages, ways, waters,
water courses, easements, and privileges of whatsoever kind or character, belonging
to, and adjoining, used in connection with or in any way appertaining to the
Real Estate.  

  (iv)  All reversions, remainders, easements, rents,
issues, income and profits arising or issuing from the Real Estate and/or the
buildings, structures and improvements now or hereafter erected or placed thereon,
or any portion thereof, including, but not limited to, the rents, issues, income
and profits arising or issuing from all insurance policies, sale agreements, licenses,
options, leases and subleases now or hereafter entered into covering any part
of the Real Estate and/or the buildings, structures and improvements now or hereafter
erected or placed thereon, or any portion thereof, all of which insurance policies,
sale agreements, licenses, options, leases, subleases, rents, issues, income
and profits are hereby assigned to Mortgagee by Mortgagor. Mortgagor will execute
and deliver to Mortgagee, on demand, such separate, specific assignments and instruments
as Mortgagee may require to implement, confirm, maintain and continue the assignment
hereunder. Mortgagor hereby appoints Mortgagee, its designees and nominees, as Mortgagor s
agents and attorneys-in-fact to collect such rents, issues and profits.  

  (v)  All awards, damages, payments and other
compensation, and any and all claims therefor, and rights thereto, which may
result from taking or injury by virtue of the exercise of the power of eminent domain
of, or to, or any damage, injury or destruction in any manner caused to, the
Real Estate and/or the  

2     

buildings, structures and
improvements now or hereafter erected or placed thereon, or any portion thereof,
all of which award, damages, payments, compensation, claims and rights are
hereby assigned to Mortgagee to the fullest extent that Mortgagor may do so
under law. Mortgagor hereby appoints Mortgagee, its designees and nominees, as Mortgagor s
agents and attorneys-in-fact to collect any such awards, damages, payments and
compensation.  

  (vi)  All fixtures, fittings, furnishings, furniture,
trade fixtures, machinery, equipment, apparatus, building materials, appliances,
goods, supplies, tools, chattels, and all articles of tangible personal
property of whatever kind and nature, together with all replacements thereof, substitutions
therefor and additions and accessions thereto, and all proceeds and profits thereof
and therefrom, now or at anytime hereafter, affixed or attached to, installed upon,
included within, or used in any way in connection with the construction, use,
enjoyment, operation, maintenance or occupancy of the Real Estate and the
buildings, structures and improvements now or hereafter erected or placed thereon;
and all agreements, contract rights, chattel paper, negotiable instruments, general
intangibles, accounts, instruments, and documents (as those terms are defined
in the Pennsylvania Uniform Commercial Code). Any item referred to in this paragraph
(vi) shall hereinafter, for purposes of creating a security interest therein
under the Pennsylvania Uniform Commercial Code, sometimes be referred to as the
Personal Property.  

  The Real Estate, and
all of the right, title and interest of Mortgagor therein and thereto, and all
of the property rights, title and interest referred to in paragraphs (i)
through (vi) above shall hereinafter sometimes be referred to collectively as
the Mortgaged Property.  

  TO HAVE AND TO
HOLD the Mortgaged Property hereby granted and conveyed, or mentioned and
intended so to be, unto Mortgagee, its successors and assigns, to its and their
own use and benefit forever.  

  PROVIDED, HOWEVER,
that if Mortgagor pays to Mortgagee the principal interest to become due under
the Note at the time and in the manner stipulated therein, and pays all other
sums payable by Mortgagor and TN to Mortgagee as are secured hereby, and if Mortgagor
and TN perform and comply with all the agreements, conditions, covenants and
provisions contained in the Note, the Loan Agreement, this Mortgage and the
other Loan Documents, and if Mortgagor and TN pay all satisfaction costs, including
the recording costs for any Mortgage satisfaction and termination statements, then
this Mortgage and the estate, right, title and interest of Mortgagee in and to
the Mortgaged Property shall cease and become void. Until such time, Mortgagor covenants,
represents, promises, warrants and agrees to and with Mortgagee as follows:  

  1.  Mortgagor s Title. Mortgagor warrants, covenants
and represents as follows:  

  1.1  Mortgagor has good and marketable and unencumbered
fee simple title to the Mortgaged Property subject only to the title exceptions
not removed from Title Insurance Commitment No. 03-1156 dated effective October
30, 2003, issued by Strong Abstract, Inc. agent for First American Title Insurance
Company, at the time of closing the loan evidenced by the Note; and  

  1.2  Mortgagor will forever warrant and defend the
title to the Mortgaged Property unto the Mortgagee, its successors and assigns,
against all persons and all claims of every kind and nature whatsoever.  

3     

2.  Payment and Performance by Mortgagor.  

  2.1  Mortgagor and TN shall pay to Mortgagee all principal,
interest and other sums now or hereafter due and payable to Mortgagee under the
terms of the Note, this Mortgage, and all other Loan Documents, as and when the
same shall become due and payable by the terms thereof and hereof.  

  2.2  Mortgagor and TN shall perform and comply with
all terms, condition, provisions, covenants and agreements on the part of
Mortgagor and/or TN to be observed and performed under this Mortgage, the Note,
the Loan Agreement, and all other Loan Documents. All the terms, conditions and
provisions of the Loan Documents are by reference incorporated herein as if fully
set forth.  

  2.3  Mortgagor shall timely perform all of its obligations
and duties under any present or future lease, easement, license, permit, approval,
covenant or agreement relating to, affecting, created for the benefit of or used
in connection with the operation of all or any portion of the Mortgaged
Property.  

  2.4  This mortgage secures obligations of
Mortgagor and TN to Mortgagee which obligations shall include, but not be
limited to, expenses and attorneys fees incurred by Mortgagee by reason of
default by Mortgagor and/or TN hereunder, under the Note or under any of the other
Loan Documents, the payment of taxes, municipal assessments and insurance premiums
whether advanced prior to or after the entry of judgment in any action to
enforce this security instrument, together with all other sums due hereunder or
secured hereby, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  

  3.  Maintenance and Repair. Mortgagor shall keep
and maintain the Mortgaged Property and the sidewalks, curbs and drives
abutting and adjacent thereto, if any, in good and tenantable order, condition
and repair, and will make as and when necessary all repairs, renewals and replacements,
structural and not structural, exterior and interior, ordinary and extraordinary,
foreseen and unforseen. All such repairs, renewals and replacements made by
Mortgagor shall be at least equal in quality to the original portion of the
Mortgaged Property being repaired, renewed or replaced. Mortgagor shall abstain
from and shall not permit the commission of waste in or about the Mortgaged
Property.  

  4.  Removal, Demolition and Alteration. Mortgagor
shall not undertake or permit the removal or demolition of any building at any
time erected on or forming a part of the Mortgaged Property, nor shall Mortgagor,
without Mortgagee s prior written consent, undertake or permit any alteration
in the design or structural character of any such building.  

  5.  Inspection by Mortgagee. Mortgagor will
permit Mortgagee and Mortgagee s agents and representatives to enter the
Mortgaged Property and all parts thereof for the purposes of making site and
building investigations, performing soil, groundwater, structural and other tests,
and generally to inspect. and photograph the condition and state of repair of
the Mortgaged Property at any reasonable time upon one (1) business day prior
notice.  

  6.  Insurance. Mortgagor shall from and after the
date hereof and at all times while the indebtedness secured hereby is outstanding
maintain at Mortgagor s sole expense, insurance in amounts, with deductibles
satisfactory to Mortgagee as more fully set forth in the Loan Agreement, including,
without  

4     

limitation, all risk, fire,
hazard and extended coverage insurance with vandalism and malicious mischief endorsements
on all buildings, structures and improvements now existing or hereafter erected
on or forming a part of the Mortgaged Property, and all of the Personal Property,
to the extent of one hundred percent (100%) of the replacement value thereof pursuant
to full replacement value endorsements naming Mortgagee as mortgagee and additional
insured pursuant to a standard mortgagee loss payable clause, without co-insurance.
Mortgagor shall also insure against such other hazards as Mortgagee may require
from time to time and shall maintain rent insurance against loss of income arising
out of damage or destruction by fire or the perils of extended coverage insurance,
in an amount equal to one (1) year s gross rental income to the owner of the Mortgaged
Premises, or business interruption insurance in an amount as required by
Mortgagee from time to time, but not to exceed Mortgagee s reasonable estimate of
the annual cost of debt service on the Note, taxes, insurance and maintenance for
the Mortgaged Premises. All such insurance shall be in such amounts as is
necessary to comply with co-insurance requirements and otherwise as Mortgagee
shall require, and shall be written by stock or nonassessable mutual carriers
with a general policy holders rating of A or better and a financial rating of
VI or better in the most recent edition of Best s Key Rating Guide, Property-Casualty,
published by Alfred M. Best Co., Inc. Mortgagor shall deliver to Mortgagee upon
demand, and in the absence of demand not less than twenty (20) days prior to
the expiration date of each such insurance policy, proof of the renewal and
continuance of all required insurance coverages, with premiums prepaid. As
additional security for the payment of the indebtedness secured by this
Mortgage, shall name Mortgagee as an additional insured or be endorsed with a
standard mortgagee clause, shall not be subject to contribution, shall be for a
term of at least one (1) year, and shall provide for cancellation or modification
only upon at least thirty (30) days prior written notice to Mortgagee.  

  6.1  If any of the insurance referred to herein, or
any part thereof, shall expire, or be canceled, or become void or voidable by
reason of the breach of any condition thereof, or if Mortgagee determines that
such coverage is unsatisfactory due to the failure or impairment of the capital
of any company in which the insurance may then be carried such that its AM Best
Rating falls below the standard set forth in this Mortgage, or if for any
reason whatever the insurance shall be or become unsatisfactory to Mortgagee, Mortgagor
shall place new insurance on the Mortgaged Property, satisfactory to Mortgagee.  

  6.2  If Mortgagee acquires title to the Mortgaged Property
either by virtue of a judicial sale thereof pursuant to proceedings under the
Note or upon this Mortgage or by virtue of a deed in lieu of foreclosure, or otherwise,
then, and in any such event, all of Mortgagor s right, title and interest in
and to all insurance policies referred to herein, including unearned premiums thereon
and the proceeds thereof, shall vest in Mortgagee.  

  7.  Taxes, Assessments and Other Charges. If
requested by Mortgagee, in addition to the monthly installment of interest and/or
principal due to Mortgagee, Mortgagor shall pay to Mortgagee, on the payment
date of installments due under the Note, until the Note is fully paid, a sum
(the Escrow Payment) equal to one-twelfth (1/12) of the annual real estate
taxes, other municipal assessments and the estimated annual premiums for all insurance
required hereunder (the Escrow Charges), with an initial deposit to cover the
months which will have elapsed between the last date such taxes, charges and
premiums were due and payable and the first date on which an installment shall
be due hereunder. The Escrow Payments may be commingled with other funds of
Mortgagee  

5     

and no interest thereon
shall be due of payable to Mortgagor. Mortgagee shall apply the Escrow Payments
to the payment of the Escrow Charges in such order or priority as Mortgagee shall
determine. If, at any time, the Escrow Payments theretofore paid to Mortgagee shall
be insufficient for the payment of the Escrow Charges, Mortgagor, within ten
(10) days after demand, shall pay the amount of the deficiency to Mortgagee.  

  Mortgagor shall
pay, prior to the accrual of any interest or penalties, without any deduction, defalcation
or abatement, and shall furnish to Mortgagee proper receipts for, within five
(5) days after their respective due dates, all ground rents, taxes, assessments,
water and sewer rents, licenses or permit fees, and all other charges or claims
which may be assessed, levied charged, imposed or filed at any time against Mortgagor,
the Mortgaged Property or any part thereof, or against the interest of
Mortgagee therein, by any governmental instrumentality or agency or other
lawful authority or by any deed restriction, private agreement or declaration,
recorded or otherwise, or which by any present or future law may have priority
over the indebtedness secured hereby either in lien or in distribution out of
the proceeds of any judicial sale. Mortgagor will pay, when due, all charges
for utilities, whether public or private, used or consumed upon, in or in
connection with the Mortgaged Property.  

  8.  Sale or Transfer of the Mortgaged Property.
Mortgagor shall not, without the prior written consent of Mortgagee: (i) sell,
transfer, convey or assign the Mortgaged Property, or any part thereof, or any
interest therein, including but not limited to, an equitable interest in the Mortgaged
Property, or any part thereof, to any party; or (ii) permit the sale, transfer,
conveyance or assignment of the Mortgaged Property or any part thereof or any interest
therein, either voluntarily or by operation of law.  

  9.  Internal Revenue Stamps. If at any time the
United States Government or any department or bureau thereof shall require Internal
Revenue stamps on the Note or other indebtedness secured hereby, Mortgagor
shall, upon demand made by Mortgage, pay for such stamps together with any
interest and penalties payable with respect thereto.  

  10.  Taxation of Note and Mortgage. If any law is
hereafter enacted: (i) deducting from the value of real estate, for purposes of
taxation, any lien or encumbrance thereon; (ii) revising or changing in any way
the laws and ordinances now in force for the taxation of mortgages or the debts
secured thereby, or the manner of collections of such taxes; (iii) imposing a
tax directly or indirectly on Mortgagee with respect to the Mortgaged Property,
the value of Mortgagor s equity therein, the indebtedness evidenced by the Note
and/or secured by this Mortgage; (iv) requiring Mortgagee to pay, in whole or
in part, any tax, assessment, charge or lien required to be paid by Mortgagor pursuant
to the terms of this Mortgage; then, and in any such event, the entire unpaid
balance of the indebtedness secured by this Mortgage shall, at the option of
Mortgagee, without notice to Mortgagor, become immediately due and payable, unless,
to the extent permitted by such law or ordinance, Mortgagor is authorized to,
and does, pay or reimburse Mortgagee for the full amount of any such tax,
assessment, charge or lien.  

  11.  Protection of Mortgage Lien. Mortgagor will promptly
perform and observe, or cause to be performed and observed, all of the terms,
covenants and condition of all instruments of record affecting the Mortgaged Property,
or imposing any duty or obligation upon Mortgagor or any occupant or tenant of
the Mortgaged Property or any part thereof. Mortgagor shall do or cause to be
done all things necessary to preserve intact and unimpaired any and all
easements, appurtenances and other interests and rights in favor of or constituting
any portion of the Mortgaged Property.  

6     

12.  Costs, Expenses and Counsel Fees. Mortgagor and/or
TN shall pay all expenses incurred by Mortgagee incident to the preparation, execution,
delivery and/or recording of the Note, this Mortgage and all of the other Loan
Documents. Mortgagor and/or TN shall, upon demand made by Mortgagee, promptly pay
to Mortgagee all expenses and costs, including reasonable attorneys  fees,
incurred by Mortgagee to collect any of the indebtedness secured hereby or to
enforce the performance of the terms, conditions, provisions, agreements and covenants
contained herein, in the Note, the Loan Agreement, or in any other Loan Document,
whether or not suit is instituted, or incurred by Mortgagee in connection with
any action, proceeding, litigation or claim instituted or asserted by or
against Mortgagee or in which the Mortgagee becomes engaged, wherein it becomes
necessary, in the opinion of Mortgagee, to enforce, defend or uphold the lien
of this Mortgage or the validity or effectiveness of any assignment of any
claim, award, payment, insurance recovery or any other right or property conveyed,
encumbered or assigned by Mortgagor to Mortgagee hereunder, or the priority of
any of the same or otherwise. All such expenses, costs and attorneys  fees, together
with interest thereon at the rate set forth in the Note in the event of a
default thereunder, shall be deemed to be part of the principal indebtedness
evidenced by the Note on a pro rata basis and secured by this Mortgage.  

  13.  Security Interest in the Personal Property. Mortgagor
and Mortgagee hereby acknowledge that this Mortgage constitutes a security
agreement under the Pennsylvania Uniform Commercial Code, and Mortgagor hereby
grants to Mortgagee a security interest in every item of the Personal Property and
the proceeds thereof and profits therefrom, replacements and substitutions therefor
and additions and accessions thereto. Mortgagor shall, upon demand made by Mortgagee,
execute, deliver and file any financing statements, continuation statements and
other instruments as Mortgagee may from time to time require in order to
perfect, confirm and maintain such perfected security interest under the Pennsylvania
Uniform Commercial Code. Mortgagor hereby irrevocably appoints Mortgagee, its designees
and nominees, as Mortgagor s agents and attorneys-in-fact to execute, deliver
and file, on Mortgagor s behalf and in its name, any such financing statements,
continuation statements, and other instruments as Mortgagee, in its sole
discretion, deems necessary.  

  13.1  Mortgagor hereby warrants and represents to Mortgagee
that Mortgagor is and will be the owner of every item of the Personal Property,
free from any leases, conditional sales, chattel mortgages, security interests,
liens or encumbrances other than the security interest hereby created. Mortgagor
further hereby represents and warrants to Mortgagee that, unless Mortgagee gives
its prior written consent to the contrary, every item of the Personal Property
has been, and shall be created thereon except the security interest hereby
created.  

  14.  Rents, Profits and Leases. Mortgagor hereby
assigns and transfers unto Mortgagee, its successors and assigns: (i) all
rights, title, interest and privileges which Mortgagor has or may have as
lessor in any lease now existing or hereafter made and affecting the Mortgaged Property
or any part thereof, together with any extensions or renewals of such leases (collectively,
the Leases and individually, a Lease); and (ii) all rents, income, and profits
due or to become due under the Leases, or any of them, or arising or accruing
from or relating to the Mortgaged Property, or any portion thereof, or the use thereof,
and Mortgagor hereby confers upon Mortgagee, immediately upon Mortgagor s default
in any respect under this Mortgage, the Note or any other Loan Document, the
right to enter upon and take possession of the Mortgaged Property, or any portion
thereof, and the right, with or without taking possession of the Mortgaged Property,
to collect and receive all rents, income and profits accruing from the Leases
and from the Mortgaged Property.  

7     

14.1  Mortgagor hereby warrants, certifies,
covenants and represents to Mortgagee as follows:  

  14.1.1  That Mortgagor has or will have title to and
full right to assign the Leases and the rents, income and profits due and to
become due arising from and due pursuant to the Leases and from the Mortgaged Property.  

  14.1.2  That Mortgagor will not, without the prior
written consent of Mortgagee in each instance, enter into any Lease for all or
any portion of the Mortgaged Property for a term of more than three (3) years
or alter or modify any Lease, consent to any subletting of any Lease, or subordinate
any Lease to any mortgage or other encumbrance other than this Mortgage. Each
and every Lease shall be for fair market rental and on other than commercially reasonable
terms between unrelated parties at arms length dealing. All such leases shall
be subject and subordinate in lien and payment to the Mortgage and any extension,
renewal, modification or replacement thereof  

  14.1.3  That Mortgagor has not executed, and will not
execute, any prior or other assignment of any of its rights under any of the Leases
or its rights to the rent, income and profits therefrom or from the Mortgaged
Property.  

  14.1.4  That as of the date of this Mortgage, there
are no Leases respecting all of any portion of the Mortgaged Property.  

  14.2  Mortgagor has executed, acknowledged and
delivered to Mortgagee a specific separate Assignment of Rents, Profits and
Leases with respect to the Mortgaged Property dated even date herewith (the
Assignment of Rents). In the event of any conflict between the terms of this
Mortgage, including without limitation this paragraph 14, and the terms of any separate
Assignment of Rents, the terms of the Assignment of Rents shall control.  

  15.  Destruction of the Mortgaged Property. In the
event of any loss, damage or destruction to or of the Mortgaged Property, or
any part thereof, Mortgagor shall give immediate written notice thereof to
Mortgagee, and Mortgagee may make proof of loss thereof if proof of loss is not
made promptly by Mortgagor; provided, however, that any adjustment of a proof
of loss shall require the prior written consent of Mortgagee which shall not be
unreasonably whithheld, conditioned or delayed. Each insurance company concerned
is hereby authorized and directed to make payment under its insurance policies
directly to Mortgagee. Mortgagee may, with the consent of Mortgagor, on behalf
of Mortgagor, adjust and compromise any claims under any insurance policies.
Mortgagor hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints Mortgagee, its designees
and nominees after an Event of Default, as Mortgagor s agents and attorneys-in-fact
to adjust and compromise claims and to collect and receive proceeds and to
endorse drafts therefor. Any proceeds paid to or collected by Mortgagee in
connection with collecting such proceeds, shall be applied, in such order and amounts
as Mortgagee, in Mortgagee s sole discretion, may elect, in reduction of the outstanding
principal balance of the Note, accrued and unpaid interest, or any other sum
due under and/or secured by the Note or this Mortgage, whether or not then due.
Mortgagee shall deliver written notice to Mortgagor of the amount so applied
and of the then outstanding balance of the indebtedness secured by this
Mortgage if the insurance proceeds are insufficient to pay the entire amount
hereof. In the event a balance remains outstanding on the Note and Mortgagee
receives proceeds of rent insurance or business interruption insurance beyond
those required to be  

8     

applied for the current
monthly installment due under the Note, Mortgagee may retain such additional
proceeds in escrow, for the account of Mortgagor, and so apply such proceeds on
a monthly basis, provided that any such proceeds not needed to be applied to
keep the Mortgagor current and not in default hereunder during the reasonably
estimated period of time when the rents from the Mortgaged Premises will be inadequate
to provide Mortgagor with sufficient funds with which to pay Mortgagee the
amounts falling due each month shall be paid over to Mortgagor to met the other
expenses of the Mortgaged Premises.  

  15.1  Repair and Restoration. Notwithstanding the provision
of paragraph 15, and provided that (i) no event of default has occurred hereunder
or under the Note or other Loan Documents, (ii) Mortgagee is satisfied that the
there are sufficient proceeds to complete the restoration of the improvements constructed
on the Mortgaged Premises to the same value and character as existed prior to
such damage, and (iii) the insurers do not deny liability as to the insureds, Mortgagee
shall apply the insurance proceeds for the repair and restoration of the Mortgaged
Property in accordance in accordance with the following conditions:  

  15.1.1  Prior to commencement of repair and restoration,
the contracts, contractors, and plans and specifications thereof shall be approved
by Mortgagee which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or
delayed, and Mortgagee shall be provided with mechanics  lien waivers.  

  15.1.2  At the time of any disbursement of the
proceeds, Mortgagor shall not be in default under the Note, or this Mortgage, no
mechanics  or materialmen s liens shall have been filed and remain undischarged
and/or not bonded against and a satisfactory bring down of title insurance
shall be delivered to Mortgagee.  

  15.1.3  Disbursement shall be made from time to time
in an amount not exceeding the cost of the work completed since the last disbursement,
upon receipt of satisfactory evidence of the stage of completion and or performance
of the work in a good and workmanlike manner in accordance with the contracts and
the plans and specifications.  

  15.1.4  Mortgagee shall retain ten percent (10%) of
the proceeds until the repair and restoration is fully completed.  

  15.1.5  The proceeds shall not bear interest and may
be commingled with Mortgagee s other funds.  

  15.1.6  Mortgagee may impose such other conditions as are
customarily imposed by construction lenders.  

  15.1.7  Prior to commencement of and at any time
during repair and restoration, if the estimated cost thereof as determined by
Mortgagee exceeds the amount of the proceeds, Mortgagor shall, immediately upon
demand by Mortgagee, pay the amount of such excess to Mortgagee to be  

9     

added to the proceeds held by Mortgagee. Any sum so added by Mortgagor which
remains upon completion of repair and restoration shall be refunded to
Mortgagor. If any sum remains after the completion and any refund to Mortgagor aforesaid,
such sum remaining shall, at Mortgagee s option, be applied on account of the
outstanding balance of the Note.  

  16.  Environmental Matters. Mortgagee shall, if it
has reason to believe a problem exists, have the right to conduct or have conducted
by its agents or contractors such environmental inspections, audits and testing
as Mortgagee shall deem necessary or advisable at any reasonable time upon at
least one (1) business day prior notice, at the sole cost and expense of
Mortgagor and/or TN. Mortgagor and each lessee of any property encumbered by
the lien of the Loan Documents, shall cooperate or, in the case of any such
lessee shall be caused to cooperate, with such inspection efforts; such
cooperation shall include, without limitation, supplying such information concerning
the operations conducted and hazardous substances or hazardous waste located on
any of such properties. In the event that Mortgagor shall fail to comply with
any applicable state or federal environmental law, then Mortgagee may, in
addition to any of its other remedies hereunder and the other Loan Documents, cause
each such property to be brought into compliance and all expenses incurred by
Mortgagee added to the sum secured by the Loan Documents and evidenced by the
Note, and shall bear interest from the date of demand at the interest rate then
in effect thereunder, plus five (5%) percent. Further, in the event Mortgagee, in
order to protect the priority of this Mortgage, or to preserve the value of the
Mortgaged Property, or in any situation in which Mortgagee is required, by
court order or otherwise, to pay any costs, fees, expenses, settlements, damages,
fines (civil or criminal) or penalties, including but not limited to, clean-up
costs, attorney s fees and court costs, because of a past, present or future violation
of the Environmental Laws (as defined in that certain Environmental Indemnity
Agreement made by Mortgagor and Guarantor and delivered to Mortgagee even date herewith)
on, in, under from or about the Mortgaged Property, all such sums shall be
added to the amount secured hereby, shall be secured hereby (if this Mortgage
is at that time in existence), shall be payable on demand by Mortgagor and/or
TN and shall bear interest from the date of demand at the interest rate then in
effect thereunder, plus five (5%) percent. The terms of this paragraph shall
survive the payment in full of all other sums secured hereby and the satisfaction
of record of this Mortgage. Mortgagor and TN have executed and delivered to Mortgagee
that certain Environmental Indemnity Agreement dated even date herewith (the Environmental
Indemnity Agreement) setting forth certain representations, warranties, covenants
and obligations of Mortgagor and TN respecting environmental matters at the
Mortgaged Property. In the event of any conflict between this Mortgage and the
Environmental Indemnity Agreement. the terms of the Environmental Indemnity
Agreement shall control. The terms of the Environmental Indemnity Agreement are
incorporated herein by reference.  

  17.  Eminent Domain. In the event that the
Mortgaged Property, or any part thereof, shall be taken in condemnation proceedings
or by the exercise of any right of eminent domain or bona fide sale in lieu thereof
(hereinafter collectively referred to as condemnation proceedings), Mortgagor
and Mortgagee shall have the right to participate in any such condemnation
proceedings and the award that may be made in any such condemnation proceedings
or the proceeds thereof or the agreed upon compensation for damages sustained
shall be applied by Mortgagee, in such order and amounts as Mortgagee, in its
sole discretion, may elect, in reduction of the outstanding principal balance
of the Note, all accrued and unpaid interest, or any other sum due under and/or
secured by the Note or this Mortgage, whether or not then due. In the event the
whole of the  

10     

Mortgaged Property is taken
and the amount of the awards, proceeds or compensation received by Mortgagee is
insufficient to pay the then unpaid principal balance of the Note, together with
all accrued and unpaid interest thereon, and all other sums then due to Mortgagee
from Mortgagor and TN, Mortgagor and/or TN shall, within ten (10) days after
the application of the award, proceeds or compensation as aforesaid, pay such
deficiency to Mortgagee. In the event less than the whole of the Mortgaged Property
is taken, and the amount of the awards, proceeds or compensation received by Mortgagee
is insufficient to reduce the outstanding balance of the Note to an amount
equal to or less than eighty-five (85%) percent of the appraised value of the
Mortgaged Property after the taking determined by an appraisal of the Mortgaged
Property by a qualified appraiser approved by Mortgagee, then Mortgagor and/or
TN shall, within ten (10) days after the application of the award, proceeds or compensation
as aforesaid, pay to Mortgagee the amount necessary to reduce the outstanding balance
of the Note to an amount equal to eighty-five (85%) percent of the appraised
value of the Mortgaged Property after the taking. The cost of such appraisal
shall be the responsibility of Mortgagor.  

  17.1  Repair and Restoration. Notwithstanding the provisions
of paragraph 17, in the event of a partial taking, and provided that (i) no event
of default has occurred hereunder or under the Note or other Loan Documents, and
(ii) Mortgagee is satisfied that the there are sufficient proceeds to complete
the restoration of the improvements constructed on the Mortgaged Premises to
the same value and character as existed prior to such taking, Mortgagee shall
apply the condemnation proceeds for the repair and restoration of the Mortgaged
Property in accordance with the following conditions:  

  17.1.1  Prior to commencement of repair and restoration,
the contracts, contractors, and plans and specifications thereof shall be approved
by Mortgagee, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or
delayed, and Mortgagee shall be provided with mechanics  lien waiver.  

  17.1.2  At the time of any disbursement of the
proceeds, Mortgagor shall not be in default under the Note, or the Mortgage, no
mechanics  or materialmen s liens shall have been filed and remain undischarged
and or properly bonded against and a satisfactory bring down of title insurance
shall be delivered to Mortgagee.  

  17.1.3  Disbursement shall be made from time to time
in an amount not exceeding the cost of the work completed since the last disbursement,
upon receipt of satisfactory evidence of the stage of completion and of performance
of the work in a good and workmanlike manner in accordance with the contracts and
the plans and specifications.  

  17.1.4  Mortgagee shall retain ten percent (10%) of
the proceeds until the repair and restoration is fully completed.  

  17.1.5  The proceeds shall not bear interest and may
be commingled with Mortgagee s other funds.  

  17.1.6  Mortgagee may impose such other conditions as are
customarily imposed by construction lenders.  

  17.1.7  Prior to commencement of and at any time
during repair and restoration, if the estimated cost thereof as determined by
Mortgagee exceeds the amount of the proceeds, Mortgagor shall, immediately upon
demand by Mortgagee, pay the amount of such excess to Mortgagee to be  

11     

added to the proceeds held by Mortgagee. Any sum so
added by Mortgagor which remains upon completion of repair and restoration shall
be refunded to Mortgagor. If any sum remains after the completion and any refund
to Mortgagor aforesaid, such sum remaining shall, at Mortgagee s option, be
applied on account of the outstanding balance of the Note.  

  18.  Events of Default. The occurrence of any one
or more of the following shall constitute an Event of Default hereunder:  

  18.1  The occurrence of an event of default under
the Note, the Loan Agreement, the Assignment of Rents, the Environmental Indemnity
Agreement or any other Loan Document.  

  18.2  The failure of Mortgagor to perform or comply
with any other of the terms, conditions, provisions, agreements, covenants and
conditions contained herein.  

  18.3  The filing
of any non consensual lien or encumbrance, mechanic s or materialmen s lien or
municipal claim against all or any portion of the Mortgaged Property which is
not discharged within twenty (20) days unless it is being contested by Mortgagor
in good faith and due diligence in appropriate proceedings with the approval of
Mortgagee, a bond or escrow having been posted with Mortgagee for the full
amount of such contested lien.  

  18.4  The
existence of any security interest, pledge, consensual lien, or other
consensual encumbrance in favor of any party other than Mortgagee in the
Mortgaged Property.  

  18.5  If Mortgagor
shall at any time deliver or cause to be delivered to Mortgagee a notice
pursuant to 42 Pa. C.S.A. 8143 electing to limit the indebtedness secured by
this Mortgage.  

  In the event of
any conflict between the terms of this Mortgage, including without limitation this
paragraph 18, and the terms of the Note, the terms of the Note shall control.  

  19.  Remedies. Upon the happening of any Event of
Default, the entire unpaid balance of principal, and all accrued and unpaid
interest under the Note and all other sums due under or secured by this Mortgage
shall, at the option of Mortgagee, become immediately due and payable, without notice
or demand. Mortgagee may forthwith, and without delay:  

  19.1  Institute an action of mortgage foreclosure
against the Mortgaged Property, or any portion thereof, or take such other
action at law or in equity for the enforcement of this Mortgage and realization
on the mortgage security or any other security herein or elsewhere provided for,
and proceed therein to final judgment and execution thereon for the entire accelerated
indebtedness as aforesaid, together with all costs of suit and attorney s fees,
together with interest at the default rate set forth in the Note on any
judgement obtained by mortgagee from and after the date of any Sheriff s Sale
of the Mortgaged Property until actual payment is made by the Sheriff of the
full amount due to Mortgagee. The obligations of the Mortgagor and/or TN and
the rights and remedies of the Mortgagee hereunder shall survive the entry of
judgment hereunder or under the obligation this Mortgage secures; it being the intention
of parties hereto that such rights, remedies and obligations shall not merge
into or be extinguished by any such judgment but shall continue until all sums
secured hereby have been paid in full.  

12     

19.1.1  The Mortgaged Property, or any portion thereof,
may be sold pursuant to any Writ of Execution issued on a judgment obtained by virtue
of the Note or this Mortgage or pursuant to any other judicial proceedings, whether
or not under this Mortgage, in one parcel as an entirety, or in such parcels, manner
and order as Mortgagee, in its sole discretion, may elect.  

  19.2  Enter and take possession of the Mortgaged Property
and manage and operate the same, let or re-let the Mortgaged Property or any
part thereof, cancel, modify, and grant indulgences with respect to the Leases,
evict tenants, bring or defend any suits in Mortgagee s name or in Mortgagor s name
in connection with possession of the Mortgaged Property, make repairs, alterations
and improvements as Mortgagee deems appropriate, and perform such other acts in
connection with the management and operation of the Mortgaged Property as Mortgagee,
in its sole discretion, deems appropriate, and demand, sue for, collect and
receive all or any rents, income and profits accruing from the Mortgaged
Property and from the Leases shall be applied by Mortgagee, in such order and
amounts as Mortgagee shall elect, to the costs of operation and maintenance of
the Mortgaged Property, the expenses (including attorney s fees) incident to
taking and retaining possession of the Mortgaged Property and collecting the
rents, issues and profits therefrom and from any Lease, any other expenses as
Mortgagee shall determine and monies necessary to satisfy all indebtedness due
under and/or secured by the Note and this Mortgage.  

  19.2.1  THE FOLLOWING SECTION SETS FORTH WARRANTS OF
ATTORNEY FOR ANY ATTORNEY TO CONFESS JUDGMENTS AGAINST MORTGAGOR. IN GRANTING
THESE WARRANTS OF ATTORNEY TO CONFESS JUDGMENTS AGAINST MORTGAGOR, MORTGAGOR HEREBY
KNOWINGLY, INTENTIONALLY, VOLUNTARILY, AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES ANY AND ALL
RIGHTS MORTGAGOR MAY HAVE TO PRIOR NOTICE AND AN OPPORTUNITY FOR HEARING UNDER
THE RESPECTIVE CONSTITUTIONS AND LAWS OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA AND
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.  

  FOR THE PURPOSE OF
OBTAINING POSSESSION OF THE MORTGAGED PROPERTY UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF AN EVENT OF
DEFAULT, MORTGAGOR HEREBY AUTHORIZES AND EMPOWERS ANY ATTORNEY OF ANY COURT OF
RECORD OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA OR ELSEWHERE, AS ATTORNEY FOR
MORTGAGOR AND ALL PERSONS CLAIMING UNDER OR THROUGH MORTGAGOR, TO, BY COMPLAINT
OR OTHERWISE, APPEAR FOR AND ENTER AND CONFESS JUDGMENT IN FAVOR OF MORTGAGEE AND
AGAINST MORTGAGOR, AND AGAINST ALL PERSONS CLAIMING UNDER OR THROUGH MORTGAGOR,
FOR RECOVERY BY MORTGAGEE OF POSSESSION OF THE MORTGAGED PROPERTY, FOR WHICH
THIS MORTGAGE, OR A COPY HEREOF VERIFIED BY AFFIDAVIT, SHALL BE A SUFFICIENT
WARRANT; WHEREUPON, IF MORTGAGEE SO DESIRES, A WRIT OF POSSESSION MAY
IMMEDIATELY ISSUE FOR POSSESSION OF THE MORTGAGED PROPERTY, WITHOUT ANY WRIT OR
PROCEEDING WHATSOEVER AND WITHOUT ANY STAY OF EXECUTION. IF FOR ANY REASON
AFTER SUCH ACTION HAS BEEN COMMENCED IT SHALL BE DISCONTINUED, OR POSSESSION OF
THE MORTGAGED PROPERTY SHALL REMAIN IN OR BE RESTORED TO MORTGAGOR, MORTGAGEE SHALL
HAVE THE RIGHT IN CONNECTION WITH THE SAME DEFAULT OR ANY SUBSEQUENT DEFAULT TO
BRING ONE OR MORE FURTHER ACTIONS OR ENTER  

13     

AND CONFESS JUDGMENT ONE OR MORE TIMES AS HEREIN PROVIDED
TO RECOVER POSSESSION OF THE MORTGAGED PROPERTY. MORTGAGEE MAY BRING AN ACTION
IN EJECTMENT AND CONFESS JUDGMENT THEREIN BEFORE OR AFTER THE INSTITUTION OF PROCEEDINGS
TO FORECLOSE THIS MORTGAGE OR TO ENFORCE THE NOTE, OR AFTER ENTRY OF JUDGMENT
IN ANY PROCEEDINGS TO FORECLOSE THIS MORTGAGE OR ON THE NOTE, OR AFTER A
SHERIFF S SALE OF THE MORTGAGED PROPERTY IN WHICH MORTGAGEE IS THE SUCCESSFUL
BIDDER.  

  MORTGAGOR ACKNOWLEDGES THAT
MORTGAGOR HAS HAD THE ASSISTANCE OF LEGAL COUNSEL IN THE REVIEW AND EXECUTION
OF THIS MORTGAGE AND FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE MEANING AND EFFECT OF THE
FOREGOING PROVISIONS CONCERNING CONFESSION OF JUDGMENT HAVE BEEN FULLY EXPLAINED
TO MORTGAGOR BY SUCH COUNSEL, AND AS EVIDENCE OF SUCH FACT THE MORTGAGOR SIGN(S)
HIS/HER/THEIR/ITS INITIALS BELOW.  

/s/ PLD  

/s/ JAS  

(Initials of Mortgagor)  

(Initials of
  Mortgagor)  

19.3  Have a receiver appointed to enter into possession
of the Mortgaged Property and to collect the rents, issues, profits and income therefrom
and to apply such rents, issues, profits and income as provided for in subparagraph
19.2.1 hereof or as the court may otherwise direct. Mortgagee shall be entitled
to the appointment of a receiver without the necessity of proving either the inadequacy
of the security for the indebtedness secured hereby or the insolvency of
Mortgagor or any other person who may be legally or equitably liable to pay
money secured hereby and the Mortgagor and each such other person shall be
deemed to have waived such proof and to have consented to the appointment of
such receiver. Should the Mortgagee or any receiver collect rents, issues, profits
or income from the Mortgaged Property, monies so collected shall not be substituted
for the payment of the indebtedness secured hereby, nor can they be used to
cure the default, without the prior written consent of Mortgagee. Any receiver shall
be liable to account only for the rents, issues, profits and income actually
received by such receiver.  

  19.4  Exercise all of the remedies of a secured party
under the Pennsylvania Uniform Commercial Code, including, but not limited to,
the right and power to sell, or otherwise dispose of, the Personal Property or any
part thereof, and for that purpose Mortgagee shall take immediate and exclusive
possession of the Personal Property or any part thereof as Mortgagee elects
and, with or without judicial process, enter upon any portion of the Mortgaged Property
on which the Personal Property, or any part thereof, may be situated and remove
the same without being guilty of trespass and without liability for damages
thereby occasioned.  

  19.5  Exercise any other right or remedy otherwise available
to Mortgagee and resort to any other security held by Mortgagee for the payment
of the indebtedness secured hereby in such order and manner as Mortgagee, in
its sole discretion, may elect.  

  20.  Remedies Cumulative. The rights and remedies
of Mortgagee provided for in this Mortgage, in the Note, in the Loan Agreement,
and in any other Loan  

14     

Document, shall be
cumulative and concurrent and shall not be exclusive of any right or remedy provided
by law, in equity or otherwise. Said rights and remedies may, at the sole and
exclusive discretion of Mortgagee, be pursued singly, successively or together,
and may be exercised as often as occasion therefor shall arise.  

  21.  Mortgagor s Waivers. Mortgagor and TN hereby
waive and release: (i) all errors, defects and imperfections (except as to
notice required hereunder or in the Loan Documents), in any proceeding instituted
by Mortgagee under this Mortgage, the Note, the Loan Agreement, or any other
Loan Document; (ii) all notices of default or of Mortgagee s exercise, or
election to exercise, any right or remedy referred to in paragraph 19 hereof;
and (iii) the benefit of any laws now or hereafter enacted extending the time
for payment of any sum due under or secured hereby or affording any right to a
stay of any execution to be issued on any judgment obtained under the Note, the
Loan Agreement, this Mortgage or any other Loan Document, or exempting any
property from levy and sale upon any such execution.  

  22.  No Waiver. No failure or delay by Mortgagee in
insisting upon the strict performance by Mortgagor and/or TN of any of the terms,
covenants, conditions, agreements and provisions contained herein, in the Note,
the Loan Agreement, or in any other Loan Document shall constitute or operate
as an estoppel or a waiver of any such terms, covenants, conditions, agreements
and provisions, nor shall any such failure or delay preclude Mortgagee from thereafter
insisting upon such strict performance by Mortgagor and/or TN. Neither
Mortgagor, TN nor any guarantor or surety or other person obligated for the payment
of the indebtedness secured hereby shall be relieved of such obligation by
reason of the failure of Mortgagee or TN to comply with any request of Mortgagor
or of any such guarantor, surety or other person to take action to foreclose
this Mortgage or to otherwise enforce any of the provisions of this Mortgage or
any of the obligations secured by this Mortgage, or by reason of the release,
regardless of consideration, of the whole or any part of the security held for
the indebtedness secured by this Mortgage, or by reason of any agreement or stipulation
between any subsequent owner or owners or the Mortgaged Property and Mortgagee extending
the time of payment or modifying the terms of the Note or this Mortgage without
first having obtained the consent of Mortgagor, TN, or any such guarantor, surety
or other person, and Mortgagor and each such guarantor, surety and other person
shall continue to be liable to make payments according to the terms of any such
extension or modification agreement, unless expressly released and discharged
in writing by Mortgagee. Mortgagee may release, regardless of consideration, the
obligation of any party at any time liable for any of the indebtedness secured
by this Mortgage without, as to any other person so obligated or the remainder of
such security, in any way affecting such other person s obligation or impairing
or affecting the lien of this Mortgage or the priority of the lien of this
Mortgage.  

  23.  Mortgagee s Right to Remedy Defaults. If,
after the expiration of all applicable notice and cure periods, Mortgagor fails
to pay when due any sum required to be paid by Mortgagor or fails to perform
any obligation of Mortgagor hereunder, Mortgagee, at its option, shall have the
right, but not the obligation, to pay any such sum or to take any action which Mortgagee
deems necessary or advisable to protect the security of this Mortgage or the
Mortgaged Property, all without prejudice to any of Mortgagee s rights or remedies
available hereunder or under the Note, the Loan Agreement, or under any other Loan
Document, at law, or in equity. The amount of all payments so made by Mortgagee,
together with all costs so incurred by Mortgagee, shall immediately be due and
payable from Mortgagor and/or TN to Mortgagee, together with interest  

15     

at the rate set forth in
the Note in the event of a default thereunder, from the date such payment was
made of cost incurred by Mortgagee until the date of repayment by Mortgagor and/or
TN. All such amounts, together with interest as aforesaid, shall be add to and evidenced
by the Note and secured by this Mortgage.  

  24.  Further Assurances. Mortgagor will execute
and deliver such further instruments and documents, and perform such further acts
as may be requested by Mortgagee from time to time to confirm the provisions
of, or to carry out more effectively the purposes of this Mortgage, the Note,
the Loan Agreement, or any other Loan Documents. Mortgagor hereby authorizes Mortgagee
to execute and deliver such further instruments and documents and to perform
such further acts at any time and from time to time, on behalf of Mortgagor. Mortgagor
hereby irrevocably appoints Mortgagee, its designees and nominees, as Mortgagor s
agents and attorneys-in-fact, to execute, from time to time, on behalf of Mortgagor,
one or more such instruments and documents.  

  25.  Notices and Other Communications. All notices
and other communications hereunder shall be given in the manner specified in
the Loan Agreement. All notices to be given to Mortgagee pursuant to 42 Pa.
C.S.A. 8143 shall be given to Mortgagee by certified mail to Mortgagee s
address set forth below.  

  26.  Captions. The heading and captions herein are
inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not control or affect the
meaning or construction of any of the provisions of this Mortgage.  

  27.  Binding Effect. This Mortgage shall bind
Mortgagor and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of
Mortgagee and Mortgagor and their respective successors and assigns.  

  28.  No Amendment. This Mortgage shall not be
modified or amended except in writing signed by the party against whom the enforcement
of such amendment or modification is sought.  

  29.  Severability. If any term, covenant or condition
of this Mortgage or the application thereof to any party or circumstance shall,
to any extent, be invalid, or unenforceable, the remainder of this Mortgage, or
the application of such term, covenant or condition to parties or circumstances
other than those as to which it is held invalid or unenforceable shall not be
affected thereby and each term, covenant or condition of this Mortgage shall be
valid and be enforced to the fullest extent permitted by law.  

  30.  Governing Law. This Mortgage shall be construed
and enforced in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.  

  31.  Waiver of Jury Trial. MORTGAGOR AND MORTGAGEE HEREBY
KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVE ANY RIGHT EITHER MAY HAVE TO A
TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION BASED HEREON, OR ARISING OUT OF, UNDER
OR IN CONNECTION WITH, THE NOTE, THIS MORTGAGE, AND OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS, ANY
OTHER TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY OR ANY COURSE OF CONDUCT,
COURSE OF DEALING, STATEMENTS (WHETHER VERBAL OR WRITTEN) OR ACTIONS OF THE
MORTGAGEE OR THE MORTGAGOR IN CONNECTION HEREWITH OR THEREWITH. THIS PROVISION
IS A MATERIAL  

16  

INDUCEMENT FOR THE
MORTGAGEE TO MAKE THE LOAN EVIDENCED BY THE NOTE AND SECURED BY, INTER ALIA,
THIS MORTGAGE.  

  IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, Mortgagor has caused this Mortgage to be duly executed the day
and year first above written.  

MORTGAGOR:  

SPITZ, INC.  

/s/ Donn L. Guthrie  

WITNESS AS TO BOTH  

WITNESS AS TO BOTH  

BY:  

/s/ Jonathan Shaw   

(SEAL)  

ATTEST:  

/s/ Paul
  Dailey   

(SEAL)  

[Corporate Seal]  

In
consideration of Mortgagee s advance of the proceeds of the Note and the covenants
and obligations of TN as set forth herein, and intending to be legally bound
hereby, TN has caused this Mortgage to be duly executed.  

TRANSNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INC.  

/s/ Donn L. Guthrie  

WITNESS AS TO BOTH  

BY:  

/s/ Jonathan Shaw   

(SEAL)  

ATTEST:  

/s/ Paul
  Dailey   

(SEAL)  

[Corporate Seal]  

I
hereby certify that the address of the above-named Mortgagee is 22 West State
Street, Media, Delaware County, Pennsylvania, 19063.  

/s/ Donn L.
  Guthrie  

Donn L. Guthrie,
  Esquire  

17     

COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA :  

  :SS  

  COUNTY OF CHESTER :  

  On
this, the 14th day of January, 2004, before me, the undersigned officer, appeared
Jonathan A. Shaw and Paul L. Dailey, who acknowledged themselves to be the
President and Executive President of, Spitz, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and
Transnational Industries, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and that they as such, being
authorized to do so, executed the foregoing instrument and acknowledged that he
executed the same for the purpose therein contained.  

  IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereunto set my hand and official seal.  

/s/ Maria
  Pantano Bucci  

NOTARY PUBLIC  

My Commission Expires:   

(Notary Seal)  

Maria Pantano Bucci, Notary Public  

Marple Twp., Delaware County  

My commission expires June 16, 2007  

RECORDING INFORMATION:  

18     

ALL THAT CERTAIN lot or
parcel of land with buildings and improvements thereon erected, Situate in the
Township of Chadds Ford, County of Delaware, State of Pennsylvania, bounded and
described according to a Final Subdivision Plan for Chadds From Plaza, made by Brandywine
Valley Engineers, Aston, PA, dated 1/19/1998 and last revised 10/2/2002 as
follows, to wit:  

  BEGINNING at a point of
curve on the Southwesterly side of Brandywine Drive (60 feet wide), being a
corner of Proposed Lot #2 (as shown on said plan); thence from said point of beginning
extending along said drive the three following courses and distances: (1) on a
line curving to the left having a radius of 425.00 feet an arc distance of
74.78 feet to a point; thence (2) South 48 degrees 55 minutes 22 seconds East
467.61 feet to a point of curve; thence (3) on a line curving to the right
having a radius of 250.00 feet an arc distance of 101.40 feet to a point, being
a corner of lands now or late of Thomas Hannum; thence leaving said drive extending
along lands of Hannum the two following courses and distances: (1) South 64
degrees 18 minutes 55 seconds West 229.98 feet to a point; thence (2) South 25
degrees 41 minutes 05 seconds East 261.49 feet to a point on the title line in
the bed of Baltimore Pike, being a corner of lands of Hannum; thence extending
along said title line the three following courses and distances: (1) South 66
degrees 53 minutes 00 seconds West 33.53 feet to a point; thence (2) South 60
degrees 12 minutes 00 seconds West 210.00 feet to a point; thence (3) South 57
degrees 55 minutes 00 seconds West 371.81 feet to a point, being a corner of
other lands of Brandy Partners; thence leaving said pike extending along said
lands the three following courses and distances: (1) North 20 degrees 56
minutes 06 seconds West 317.68 feet to a point; thence (2) North 52 degrees 44
minutes 03 seconds West 339.59 feet to a point; thence (3) North 25 degrees 49
minutes 00 seconds West 295.00 feet to a point; thence still along said lands
and along Lot #2 North 64 degrees 11 minutes 00 seconds East 743.13 feet to the
first mentioned point and place of beginning.  

  BEING Lot #3 on the
above-mentioned Plan.  

  BEING Folio
#04-00-00034-02.  

  BEING THE SAME PREMISES
which Brandy Partners, a Pennsylvania limited partnership, by Indenture bearing
date the 14th day of January, 2004, duly executed, acknowledged and delivered,
and intended to be forthwith recorded, granted and conveyed unto Spitz, Inc., a
Delaware corporation, in fee.  

  EXHIBIT  A   

19  

</EX-10.25>

<EX-10.26>
 5
 a07-5744_1ex10d26.htm
 EX-10.26

EXHIBIT
10.26   

  MORTGAGE NOTE  

FOR VALUE
RECEIVED, and without defalcation or setoff, Transnational Industries, Inc., a
Delaware corporation, and Spitz, Inc., a Delaware corporation (individually,
collectively, jointly and severally referred to as the  Maker ), with an
address of P.O. Box 198, Route 1, Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania 19317 promises to
pay to the order of FIRST KEYSTONE BANK ( Payee ), a federally chartered stock
savings bank organized and existing under the laws of the United States of
America, at Payee s office located at 22 West State Street, Media,
Pennsylvania, 19063, the principal amount of Three Million Two Hundred Thousand
($3,200,000.00) Dollars, advanced pursuant to the terms, conditions, and
provisions of a certain Loan Agreement dated even date herewith, by and between
Maker and Payee (the  Loan Agreement ), together with interest on the
outstanding principal balance of this Mortgage Note (the Note) from the date
hereof at the rate of five and three quarter (5.750%) percent per annum,
provided, however, effective January 14, 2006, and on that same day every
thirty sixth (36th) month thereafter the rate of interest will adjust to a
fixed per annum rate equal to the greater of (i) five and three quarter
(5.750%) percent, or (ii) three hundred (300) basis points (3.00%) over the
Three (3) Year Constant Maturity Treasury Rate, the said fixed rate to be set
five (5) days prior to the effective date of the rate change; provided,
however, that should the fifth day fall on a Saturday, Sunday or a bank
holiday, the said fixed rate shall be set on the last day prior to such the
fifth day for which a Three (3) Year Constant Maturity Treasury Rate is
available. The rate of interest from time to time charged on the outstanding
balance of this Note is hereinafter referred to as the Rate.  

  1.  Payment.  The principal amount of this Note shall be
payable, together with interest thereon, in lawful money of the United States,
in the following manner:  

  (a)  On January
1, 2004, a payment of interest only scheduled to accrue on the principal
balance outstanding from the date hereof to January 31, 2004.  

  (b)  Commencing
on the first day of March, 2004 and on the first day of each and every month
thereafter, Maker shall pay to Payee the principal, together with interest
accruing hereunder at the Rate, in arrears, in amortized, consecutive, and
successive monthly installments sufficient to repay the principal balance of
this Note, together with interest accruing thereon at the Rate, in full over a
twenty (20) year amortization period (the  Amortization Period ), provided,
however, interest on this Note shall be calculated on the basis of a three
hundred sixty (360) day year, and charged for the actual number of days elapsed.
Provided, however, Payee shall recalculate the amount of the monthly principal
and interest installment due on this Note on the first day of the first month
following the effective date of any change in the Rate. The recalculated
monthly installment shall be equal to the monthly installment sufficient to
repay the principal balance Maker is expected to owe as of the effective date
of any change in the Rate, together with interest accruing thereon at the Rate,
in full over the remaining portion of the original Amortization Period.  

1     

(c)  Notwithstanding
the foregoing, and unless sooner paid, the entire outstanding principal amount
of this Note, together with all interest accrued and not theretofore paid, and
all other sums payable hereunder, shall be due and payable in full on January
13, 2024 (the  Maturity Date ).  

  2.  Security.  The payment of this Note, and the performance
by Maker of all of its obligations under the commitment letter dated December
19, 2003 (the  Commitment Letter ), and the Loan Agreement are secured by,
among other things:  

  (a)  a certain
Open-End Mortgage and Security Agreement, dated even date herewith (the
Mortgage), secured upon certain real property premises currently occupied by
Spitz, Inc., located at Route 1, Chadds Ford Township, Delaware County,
Pennsylvania, being Folio No. 04-00-00034-02, and more specifically described
on the metes and bounds legal description, attached to the Mortgage and labeled
Exhibit A, and all improvements now or hereafter placed or made thereon and
thereto (the Mortgage Premises), and creating a security interest under the
Pennsylvania Uniform Commercial Code in all fixtures, equipment and other
tangible personal property, including, but not limited to, all machinery,
appliances, furnishings, tools and building materials now or hereafter acquired
by Maker and installed or to be installed upon, or used or to be used in
connection with, the Mortgaged Premises;  

  (b)  those
certain UCC-1 Financing Statements, dated even date herewith, identifying Maker
as Debtorand Payee as the Secured Party, securing Payee s interest in and to
all fixtures, equipment and other tangible personal property, including, but
not limited to, all machinery, appliances, furnishings, tools and building
materials now or hereafter acquired by Maker and installed or to be installed
upon, or used or to be used in connection with the Mortgaged Premises;  

  (c)  an
Assignment of Rents, Profits and Leases, dated even date herewith, pursuant to
which Spitz, Inc. has collaterally assigned to Payee all of its right, title
and interest in and to all rents, profits and income arising from the Mortgaged
Premises and from all leases now or hereafter in effect pertaining to all or
any portion of the Mortgaged Premises, and;  

  (d)  a
Collateral Assignment of Agreements Affecting Real Estate, dated even date
herewith, pursuant to which Maker has collaterally assigned to Payee all of
Maker s right, title and interest in and to all approvals, permits, contracts
and warranties, now or hereafter in effect, pertaining to all or any portion of
the Mortgaged Premises.  

  All of the
agreements, conditions, covenants and provisions contained in the Commitment
Letter, the Loan Agreement, and the documents listed in clauses (a) through (d)
above (hereinafter referred to collectively as the  Loan Documents) are hereby
made a part of this Note to the same extent and with the same force and effect
as if they were fully set forth herein. Maker covenants and agrees to keep and
perform, or cause to be kept and performed, all such agreements, conditions,
covenants and provisions, strictly in accordance with their terms.  

  3.  Late Charge.  Maker is obligated to make payments of
interest or principal or both on the above specified due dates in accordance
with the terms of this Note  

2     

without defalcation or
setoff and without notice or demand, and the failure to receive any notice or
demand from Payee shall not be a defense to, or excuse for, the failure to make
such payments on the due dates. If any installment of interest or principal or
both, or any other payment required hereunder or under any of the Loan
Documents is not paid within fifteen (15) days after the due date of such
installment, or payment, a late charge equal to the greater of: (a) five
percent (5.00%) of such overdue amount; or (b) seventy-five ($75.00) Dollars
will be due and payable to Payee to cover the additional expense incident to
such delinquency. This shall not be construed to obligate Payee to accept any
overdue installment (i.e., any payment remaining unpaid for a period of five
(5) days after written notice of failure to pay the same when due) nor to limit
Payee s rights and remedies for Maker s default, as hereinafter set forth.  

  4.  Default. Maker shall be in default hereunder
upon the occurrence of any of the following events (an  Event of Default): (i)
any installment of interest or principal and interest, or any other sum
required hereunder, or any other payment required under any of the Loan
Documents, remains unpaid for the period of five (5) days after written notice
of failure to pay the same when due in accordance with the provisions hereof or
under any of the Loan Documents; (ii) after the expiration of any applicable
notice and cure periods, if any, the default by Maker under any of the Loan
Documents; (iii) the institution by or against Maker of any bankruptcy,
insolvency, reorganization, arrangement, debt adjustment, receivership,
liquidation or dissolution proceeding which, if instituted against any such
party, is consented to by such party or remains not dismissed or stayed for
sixty (60) days; (iv) the adjudication of Maker as a bankrupt or the
appointment of a trustee or receiver for all or any part of Maker s property;
(v) the making by Maker of an assignment for the benefit of creditors; (vi) the
admission by Maker of an inability to pay his/her/its or their debts as they
become due; (vii) after the expiration of any applicable notice and cure
periods, if any, the default by Maker or any affiliate, owner or subsidiary
thereof, in making any payment for money owed or borrowed by Maker or any
affiliate, owner or subsidiary thereof including, without limitation, the
occurrence of an event of default under that certain Line Of Credit Agreement
dated June 12, 1997 between Payee and Maker, amended by that certain
Modification Agreement dated July 7, 2000, and further amended by that certain
Second Modification Agreement dated July 18, 2002, respecting a Two Million
($2,000,000.00) Dollar commercial revolving line of credit; (viii) the untruth,
in any respect regarded by Payee as material, of any warranty, representation,
certification, financial statement or other information made or furnished by
Maker in connection with the loan made by Payee to Maker pursuant to the
Commitment Letter and the Loan Agreement; or (ix) the sale or transfer of any
right, title, or interest, legal or equitable, in the Mortgaged Premises or any
part or parcel thereof or a change of the majority of the members of the board
of directors of Maker during any twelve (12) month period.  

  5.  Remedies. Upon the occurrence of any Event of
Default, the entire unpaid balance of principal (including any additional loans
or advances and all other sums paid by Payee to or on behalf of Maker or added
to the principal hereof pursuant to the terms of this Note or any of the Loan
Documents), with all accrued interest thereon, together with an attorney s
commission for collection of the greater of Five Thousand ($5,000.00) Dollars
or five (5%) percent of the total indebtedness, and all other sums due and
owing hereunder or under the Loan Documents, shall, at the option of Payee,
become immediately due and payable without presentment, demand or further
action of any kind, and one or more executions may forthwith issue on any
judgment or judgments obtained by virtue of any provision of this Note or
otherwise obtained and any security given to  

3     

secure the obligation
evidenced by this Note may thereupon forthwith be enforced, and Payee may also
recover all costs of suit and other expenses of collection involving, but not
limited to, reasonable attorney s fees, the costs of title searches, the costs
of eviction of any tenants and re-appraisals.  

  The rights and
remedies provided herein or in the Loan Documents shall be cumulative and
concurrent and shall not be exclusive of any right or remedy provided by law,
in equity or otherwise. Said rights and remedies may, at the sole discretion of
Payee, be pursued singly, successively or together as often as occasion
therefor shall arise, against Maker and/or the Mortgaged Premises or any other
security for this Note, as applicable. No failure on the part of Payee to
exercise any of such rights or remedies shall be deemed a waiver of any such
rights or remedies or of any Event of Default hereunder.  

  Upon the occurrence
of an Event of Default, Payee shall have the right, but not the duty, to cure
such default, in part or in its entirety, and all amounts expended or debts
incurred by Payee, including reasonable attorneys  fees, shall be deemed to be
advances to Maker, shall be added to the principal due under this Note, shall
be secured by the security for this Note, and shall be payable by Maker to
Payee upon demand with interest at the Default Rate (hereinafter defined).  

  6.  Default Rate.  Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default,
interest shall continue to accrue thereafter at the default rate of the Rate
plus five (5%) percent per annum (the Default Rate) until this Note, and all
sums due hereunder, are paid in full, including the period following the entry
of any judgment. Interest after the occurrence of an Event of Default at the
Default Rate shall be calculated on the basis of a three hundred sixty (360)
day year, but charged for the actual number of days elapsed.  

  7.  WARRANT OF ATTORNEY.  THE FOLLOWING SECTION SETS FORTH WARRANTS OF
ATTORNEY FOR ANY ATTORNEY TO CONFESS JUDGMENTS AGAINST MAKER. IN GRANTING THESE
WARRANTS OF ATTORNEY TO CONFESS JUDGMENTS AGAINST MAKER, MAKER HEREBY
KNOWINGLY, INTENTIONALLY, VOLUNTARILY, AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVE(S) ANY AND ALL
RIGHTS MAKER MAY HAVE TO PRIOR NOTICE AND AN OPPORTUNITY FOR HEARING UNDER THE
RESPECTIVE CONSTITUTIONS AND LAWS OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA AND THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.  

  UPON THE
OCCURRENCE OF AN EVENT OF DEFAULT, MAKER, WITHOUT FURTHER CONSENT OR NOTICE,
DOES HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AUTHORIZE AND EMPOWER ANY ATTORNEY
OF THE PROTHONOTARY OF ANY COURT OF RECORD OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
OR ELSEWHERE TO APPEAR FOR MAKER IN ANY SUCH COURT, AND WITH OR WITHOUT A
COMPLAINT OR DECLARATION FILED, IN AN APPROPRIATE ACTION BROUGHT AGAINST MAKER
ON THIS NOTE, TO ENTER AND CONFESS JUDGMENT AGAINST MAKER IN FAVOR OF PAYEE OR
ITS SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS, FOR ALL OR ANY PORTION OF THE ENTIRE AMOUNT DUE TO
PAYEE UPON SUCH EVENT OF DEFAULT AS PROVIDED HEREIN, TOGETHER WITH COSTS OF
SUIT AND ATTORNEYS  COMMISSION IN AN AMOUNT EQUAL TO FIVE (5%) PERCENT  

4     

OF THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT
OUTSTANDING UNDER THIS NOTE, BUT IN NO EVENT LESS THAN FIVE THOUSAND
($5,000.00) DOLLARS; AND FOR SO DOING THIS NOTE OR A COPY HEREOF VERIFIED BY
AFFIDAVIT SHALL BE A SUFFICIENT WARRANT. THE AUTHORITY HEREIN GRANTED TO
APPEAR, ENTER AND CONFESS JUDGMENT SHALL NOT BE EXHAUSTED BY ANY ONE OR MORE
EXERCISE THEREOF OR BY ANY DEFECTIVE EXERCISE THEREOF, BUT SHALL CONTINUE AND BE
EXERCISABLE FROM TIME TO TIME UNTIL THE FULL PAYMENT OF ALL AMOUNTS DUE FROM
MAKER TO PAYEE HEREUNDER AND UNDER THE LOAN DOCUMENTS IS MADE. THE FOREGOING
RIGHT AND REMEDY IS IN ADDITION TO AND NOT IN LIEU OF ANY OTHER RIGHT OR REMEDY
AVAILABLE TO PAYEE UNDER THIS NOTE OR OTHERWISE.  

  MAKER ACKNOWLEDGES
HAVING HAD THE ASSISTANCE OF LEGAL COUNSEL OR THE OPPORTUNITY TO RETAIN LEGAL
COUNSEL IN THE REVIEW AND EXECUTION OF THIS NOTE FOR THE PURPOSE OF EXPLAINING
THE MEANING AND EFFECT OF THE FOREGOING PROVISIONS CONCERNING CONFESSION OF
JUDGMENT, AND FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE MEANING AND EFFECT OF THE FOREGOING
PROVISIONS CONCERNING CONFESSION OF JUDGMENT HAVE BEEN EITHER FULLY EXPLAINED
TO MAKER BY SUCH COUNSEL OR FULLY UNDERSTOOD BY MAKER WITHOUT RELIANCE ON PAYEE
IF MAKER HAS ELECTED NOT TO BE REPRESENTED BY LEGAL COUNSEL AND AS EVIDENCE OF
SUCH FACT SIGNS HIS/HER/THEIR/ITS INITIALS.  

/s/ PLD  

/s/ JAS  

(Initials of
  Maker)  

(Initials of
  Maker)  

Maker hereby
waives the benefit of any laws now or hereafter enacted providing for any stay
of execution, marshaling of assets, exemption from civil process, redemption,
extension of time for payment, or valuation or appraisement of all or any part
of the Mortgaged Premises or any other security for this Note, exempting all or
any part of the Mortgaged Premises, any other security for this Note or any
other property of Maker from attachment, levy or sale upon any such execution
or conflicting with any provision of this Note or any of the Loan Documents.
Maker waives and releases Payee and said attorney or attorneys from all errors,
defects and imperfections whatsoever in confessing any such judgment or in any
proceedings relating thereto or instituted by Payee hereunder or under any of
the Loan Documents. Maker hereby agrees that any property that may be levied
upon pursuant to a judgment obtained under this Note may be sold upon any
execution thereon in whole or in part, and in any manner and order that Payee,
in its sole discretion may elect.  

  8.  Prepayment.  Upon giving Payee at least thirty (30) days
prior written notice, Maker may prepay all or any portion of the outstanding
principal balance of this Note by paying, in addition to (i) the prepaid
principal amount, (ii) all accrued and unpaid interest to the date of
prepayment, and (iii) all other amounts due under this Note, a prepayment
premium ( Prepayment Premium) equal to the greater of:  

5     

(a)                the
product obtained multiplying (1) the difference between the then Rate and the
yield rate of that U.S. Treasury Note the due date of which is closest to
(either before, after or on) the end of the current three (3) year fixed rate
period of this Note (the Period End Date) (however, if the period between the
Period End Date and the due date exceeds six(6) months, the average of the
yield rates of the two U.S. Treasury Notes with due dates next preceding and
following the Period End Date shall be used to compute such difference; and if
there are two or more U.S. Treasury Notes with the same due dates, that one
with a whole yield rate closest to the Rate shall be used to compute such
difference) as reported in the Wall Street Journal or similar publication on
the fifth (5th) business day preceding the prepayment date, and (2) the number
of whole and fractional years remaining between the prepayment date and the
Period End Date, and (3) the prepaid principal amount; or 

  (b)               one
(1%) percent of the prepaid principal amount. 

  Prepayment shall
mean any event whereby the indebtedness evidenced by this Note is paid in
advance of the payment schedule or fully satisfied prior to the Maturity Date
in any manner, whether voluntary or involuntary, including without limitation
any payment after default, any payment after the Maturity Date is accelerated,
or any payment under court order or bankruptcy proceeding. Payee shall not be
required to accept ay prepayment if it does not include payment of the required
Prepayment Premium. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Maker may
during each calendar year, upon giving Payee thirty (30) days prior written
notice, prepay, in the aggregate, an amount equal to or less than ten (10%)
percent of the outstanding principal balance of the indebtedness evidenced by
this Note determined as of January 1 of each calendar year without liability
for the payment of any Prepayment Premium.  

  Notwithstanding
the foregoing, no Prepayment Premium will be due and payable (i) in the event
of the receipt and retention by the Payee of proceeds from any casualty loss or
condemnation (ii) during the last 120 days of any three (3) year term of this
Note or (iii) as a result of the sale of all or a portion of the Mortgaged
Premises to an unaffiliated third party in an arms length transaction.  

  All prepayments
shall first be applied to the Prepayment Premium, then on account of interest
accrued hereunder and other sums due hereunder other than principal, with the
balance applied to principal. No partial prepayment shall postpone or interrupt
payments of interest or the payment of the remaining principal balance, all of
which shall continue to be due and payable at the times and in the manner set
forth above.  

  9.  Waiver.  The Maker and all other endorsers, sureties
and guarantors hereby jointly and severally waive presentment and demand for
payment, notice of demand, notice of default (except as required in this Note),
notice of dishonor, protest and notice of protest of this Note, and all other
notices in connection with the delivery, acceptance, performance, default or
enforcement of the payment of this Note, and also waive notice of the exercise
of any options on the part of Payee hereunder.  

  The granting, with
or without notice, of any extension or extensions of time for payment of any
sum or sums due hereunder, or under any of the Loan  

6     

Documents, or for the
performance of any covenant, provision, condition or agreement contained herein
or therein, or the granting of any other indulgence, or the taking or releasing
or subordinating of any security for the indebtedness evidenced hereby, or any
other modification or amendment of this Note or any of the Loan Documents, will
in no way release or discharge the liability of Maker, whether or not granted
or done with the knowledge or consent of Maker.  

  Payee shall not be
deemed, by any act of omission or commission, to have waived any of its rights
or remedies hereunder, under any of the Loan Documents, at law or in equity,
unless such waiver is in writing and signed by Payee, and then only to the
extent specifically set forth in the writing. A waiver as to one event shall
not be construed as continuing or as a bar to or waiver of any right or remedy
as to a subsequent event.  

  10.  Joint and Several Liability.  The obligations and liabilities hereunder of
the persons or entities referred to as  Maker  shall be joint and several.  

  11.  Notice.  Regular monthly payment invoices and notice of
any change in the monthly installment of principal and interest due under this
Note shall be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, to the address of Maker
set forth above. All other notices and other communications required or given
under this Note shall be given in the manner and to the addresses set forth in
the Loan Agreement  

  12.  Miscellaneous.  Notwithstanding any other provision contained
herein, if, at any time, the Rate or the Default Rate shall be deemed by any
competent court of law, governmental agency or tribunal to exceed the maximum
rate of interest permitted by any applicable laws, then, for such time as the
Rate or the Default Rate would be deemed excessive, its application shall be
suspended and there shall be charged instead the maximum rate of interest
permitted under such laws. Any amounts theretofore received by Payee hereunder
in excess of the maximum rate of interest so permitted shall be applied by Payee
in reduction of the outstanding principal balance of this Note, or if this Note
shall have theretofore been paid in full, the amount of such excess shall
promptly be returned by Payee to Maker.  

  In the event any
portion of this Note shall be declared by any court of competent jurisdiction
to be invalid or unenforceable, such portion shall be deemed severable from
this Note, and the remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and
effect, as fully as though such invalid or unenforceable portion was never part
of this Note.  

  The obligations of
Maker hereunder shall be binding on the successors and assigns of Maker, and
the benefits of this Note shall inure to Payee, its successors and assigns and
to any holder of this Note.  

  Each and every
person or entity signing this Note as an endorser binds himself, herself or
itself as principal not as surety, and agrees to be bound by and comply with
all of the terms, conditions and provisions of this Note.  

7     

Nothing herein
contained or contained in any of the Loan Documents shall be construed to
create a partnership or joint venture between Payee and Maker, or to render
Payee in any way responsible for the debts or losses of Maker.  

  This Note, and all
issues arising hereunder, shall be governed by and construed according to the
laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.  

  MAKER AND PAYEE
HEREBY KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVE ANY RIGHT EITHER MAY HAVE
TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION BASED HEREON, OR ARISING OUT
OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS NOTE, THE MORTGAGE, ANY OTHER DOCUMENT OR
INSTRUMENT RELATING HERETO OR THERETO, ANY OTHER TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED
HEREBY OR THEREBY OR ANY COURSE OF CONDUCT, COURSE OF DEALING, STATEMENTS
(WHETHER VERBAL OR WRITTEN) OR ACTIONS OF THE PAYEE OR THE MAKER IN CONNECTION
HEREWITH OR THEREWITH. THIS PROVISION IS A MATERIAL INDUCEMENT FOR THE PAYEE TO
MAKE THE LOAN EVIDENCED BY THIS NOTE.  

  [THIS SPACE
INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK. SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS.]  

8     

IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, Maker has caused this Note to be duly executed and sealed this 14th
day of January, 2004.  

WITNESSES: 

MAKER:  

SPITZ, INC.  

/s/ Maria Pantano Bucci  

/s/ Donn L. Guthrie  

WITNESS AS TO
  ALL  

BY:  

/s/ Jonathan Shaw   

(SEAL)  

ATTEST:  

/s/ Paul Dailey   

(SEAL)  

TRANSNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INC.  

BY:  

/s/ Jonathan Shaw   

(SEAL)  

ATTEST:  

/s/ Paul Dailey   

(SEAL)  

9  

</EX-10.26>

<EX-10.27>
 6
 a07-5744_1ex10d27.htm
 EX-10.27

EXHIBIT 10.27   

  LOAN
AGREEMENT  

  THIS
IS A LOAN AGREEMENT (the  Agreement ), dated as of the 14th day of January,
2004, between Transnational Industries, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and
Spitz, Inc., a Delaware corporation (individually, collectively, jointly and severally
referred to as the  Borrower ), with an address of P.O. Box 198, Route 1,
Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania 19317, and FIRST KEYSTONE BANK ( Lender ), a federally
chartered stock savings bank organized and existing under the laws of the
United States of America, with a principal business office located at 22 West
State Street, Media, Pennsylvania, 19063.  

  1.   DEFINITIONS.
The following terms when used in this Agreement shall have the respective
meanings set forth below:  

  1.1.              Assignments:
Additional collateral for the Loan, including, without limitation, (i) a
Collateral Assignment of Agreements Affecting Real Estate,including without
limitation, all approvals, permits, contracts and warranties related to the Land;
and (ii) an Assignment of Rents, Profits and Leases.  

  1.2               Borrower: Transnational
Industries, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and Spitz, Inc., a Delaware corporation,
individually, collectively, jointly and severally.  

  1.3.              Closing Date:
The date of the execution and delivery of this Agreement by Borrower and
Lender.  

  1.4.              Collateral: The
real property and personal property pledged to Lender to secure the Loan pursuant
to the Mortgage and the Assignments, including, without limitation, the Land
and the improvements thereon.  

  1.5.              Commitment Letter:
A certain Commitment Letter from Lender to Borrower dated December 19, 2004  

  1.6.              Event of Default:
The occurrence of any event described in Paragraph 5.1 hereof.  

  1.7.              Governmental
Authority: The United States of America, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, and
any political subdivision thereof in which the Land is located including without
limitation the County of Delaware, the Township of Chadds Ford, and any agency,
department, court, commission, board, bureau or instrumentality of any of them
which exercises jurisdiction over the Land or Borrower.  

  1.8.              Land: The
real property currently occupied by Borrower located at Route 1, Chadds Ford
Township, Delaware County, Pennsylvania, being Folio No. 04-00-00034-02, as
more particularly described on Exhibit  A  to the  

1     

Mortgage, together with
all of the property rights, title, interests, easements and other rights
appurtenant to such real property and defined in the Mortgage as the Mortgaged
Property.  

  1.9.              Legal
Requirements: All applicable laws, statutes, ordinances, rulings, regulations, codes,
decrees, orders, judgments, conditions, restrictions and requirements of any Governmental
Authority, including, without limitation, agreements, requirements, restrictions
and conditions related to any permit, approval or other grant of authority.  

  1.10.            Loan: The
credit facility of Three Million Two Hundred Thousand ($3,200,000.00) Dollars
to be advanced by Lender to Borrower pursuant to this Agreement and to be
evidenced by the Note and secured by, among other things, the Mortgage and the
Assignments.  

  1.11.            Loan Documents:
All agreements, documents, instruments, certificates, legal opinions and other
papers executed and delivered or otherwise furnished by Borrower to Lender in connection
with the Loan including, without limitation, this Agreement, the Commitment
Letter, the Note, the Mortgage, and the Assignments.  

  1.12.            Maturity
Date: January 13, 2024.  

  1.13.            Mortgage: The
mortgage of even date herewith from Borrower to Lender granting a first lien
mortgage and security interest in, among other things, (i) the Land, and (ii)
all personal property of Borrower located on the Land.  

  1.14.            Note: The
mortgage note of even date herewith from Borrower to Lender evidencing the Loan
in the amount of Three Million Two Hundred Thousand ($3,200,000.00) Dollars and
all extensions, renewals and modifications thereof.  

  1.15.            Permitted Exceptions:
The title exceptions not removed at the closing of the Loan from Title Insurance
Commitment No. 03-1156 dated effective October 30, 2003, issued by Strong
Abstract, Inc. agent for First American Title Insurance Company, as approved by
Lender in its sole discretion.  

  1.16.            Title Agent:
Strong Abstract, Inc., agent for First American Title Insurance Company.  

  2.   LOAN.  

  2.1.              General.
Borrower is the owner in fee of the Land. The Loan shall be repaid in full no
later than the Maturity Date, in accordance with this Agreement and the other
Loan Documents.  

  2.2.              Loan Amount.
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Lender shall lend to
Borrower and Borrower shall borrow from Lender Three Million Two Hundred
Thousand ($3,200,000.00) Dollars, which shall bear interest and be repaid as
set forth in the Note.  

2     

2.3.              Loan Disbursement.
The purpose of the Loan is to finance Borrower s acquisition of the Land. The
proceeds of the Loan shall be fully disbursed of even date herewith by check or
wire transfer to the Title Agent to be applied on account of the purchase price
for the Land.  

  3.   REPRESENTATIONS
AND WARRANTIES. Borrower represents and warrants to Lender as of the date
hereof and at all times when this Agreement shall remain in effect or the indebtedness
evidenced by the Note shall remain outstanding that:  

  3.1.              Organization
and Good Standing. Borrower is/are duly organized, validly existing and in good
standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and Spitz, Inc. is registered
as a foreign corporation and is in good standing in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
and in any other jurisdiction in which Borrower was organized. The character of
the properties owned or leased by Borrower and the nature of Borrower s. businesses
do not require Borrower to be qualified and in good standing in any other state
in order to avoid material liability or disadvantage. Certified copies of
Borrower s organizational documents and all amendments thereto have been
delivered to Lender and are current, correct and complete as of the date hereof  

  3.2.              Power and
Authority. Borrower has full power and authority (i) to own Borrower s
properties, and Spitz, Inc, has full power and authority to own the Land, and
(ii) to conduct Borrower s businesses as now conducted and as to be conducted in
connection with the operation of the Land. Borrower has full power and authority
to execute, deliver and comply with the provisions of each of the Loan
Documents executed by Borrower. Each of the Loan Documents executed by Borrower
constitute the legally binding obligation of Borrower enforceable against
Borrower in accordance with its terms.  

  3.3.              No
Litigation. There is no action, suit or proceeding pending or, to the knowledge
of Borrower, threatened against or affecting Borrower or all or any portion of
the Land or Borrower s business, except actions, suits and proceedings fully
covered (except for deductibles) by insurance.  

  3.4.              Conflict. Neither
the execution nor the delivery of any of the Loan Documents, nor the
performance or satisfaction by Borrower of any of the provisions thereof, will
conflict with or result in a breach of any of the provisions of any applicable Legal
Requirements, or any agreement or other instrument to which Borrower is a party
or by which Borrower is bound, or result in the creation or imposition of any
lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property of Borrower, or the Land other
than any lien created pursuant to any of the Loan Documents.  

  3.5.              Consent. No
consent, approval or other authorization of or by any Governmental Authority is
required in connection with the execution or delivery by Borrower of any of the
Loan Documents, or compliance with or performance of any of the provisions
thereof.  

  3.6.              Permits and Approvals.
Borrower has secured all licenses, permits, authorizations, consents and approvals
required by any Governmental Authority for the use and occupation of the Land
as commercial real estate and the operation of Borrower s business thereon.  

3     

3.7.              Compliance: Zoning.
Borrower has complied with all Legal Requirements and all recorded instruments affecting
the Land and the use thereof complies with all zoning and use-related Legal
Requirements.  

  3.8.              Financial Statements.  

  3.8.1.           The
financial statements of Borrower delivered to Lender prior to the date hereof are
Borrower s most current financial statements and fully and accurately present
the financial condition of Borrower as of the date thereof, in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied. There are no
liabilities or obligations of Borrower which are individually or in the
aggregate material, either accrued, absolute, contingent or otherwise, except (i)
to the extent set forth in the balance sheets and the notes thereto and not
heretofore paid or discharged, and (ii) those incurred subsequent to the date
of the foregoing financial statements, which are consistent with past business practice
and in the normal and ordinary course of business.  

  3.8.2.           Since the
dates of the foregoing financial statements, there has not been (i) any
material adverse change in the financial condition or in the operations, business
or property of Borrower or (ii) any damage, destruction or loss, whether or not
covered by insurance, materially and adversely affecting the operations,
business or property of Borrower. Borrower is not aware of any fact or circumstance,
which (with or without the passage of time or the giving of notice or both)
would or could result in any such change.  

  3.9.              Taxes and
Assessments. All federal, state and other tax returns and reports of Borrower required
to be filed have been duly filed, and all federal, state and other taxes, assessments
(including assessments for municipal improvements), fees or other governmental charges
imposed upon Borrower or the Land which are due and payable have been paid. Borrower
is not aware of any proposed material tax or other assessments against it, or the
Land, and no extension of time for assessment or payment of any federal, state or
local tax by the Borrower is in effect, unless an extension has been applied for
and granted and any taxes due with such extension paid.  

  3.10.            Title.  

  3.10.1.         Spitz, Inc.
holds good, indefeasible and marketable fee simple title to the Land, free and
clear of all mortgages, liens, encumbrances, ground rents, leases, tenancies, licenses,
security interests, covenants, conditions, restrictions, rights-of-way, easements,
encroachments and any other matters affecting title except (i) the Permitted Exceptions,
and (ii) the liens and encumbrances created in favor of Lender pursuant to the
Loan Documents.  

  3.10.2.         Lender s
right, title and interest in and to each of the agreements, documents, instruments,
contracts, permits, licenses and other materials and assets, if any, assigned
to Lender pursuant to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents are free and
clear of all liens, encumbrances, leases, licenses, covenants, conditions, restrictions,
security interests, other assignments and other matters affecting title (except
the Permitted Exceptions), and Borrower is  

4     

permitted to assign such
agreements, documents, instruments, contracts, permits, licenses and other
materials and assets. Borrower is without knowledge of the existence of any
default under or breach of any of the foregoing.  

  3.10.3          Spitz, Inc. is
lawfully authorized to mortgage and encumber the Land.  

  3.10.4          Borrower has
not created, and will not create, or permit or suffer to be created, any liens,
encumbrances or security interests in or on the Land other than the Mortgage, or
create, or permit or suffer to be created, any reservation of title by any
party other than Lender with respect to any portion of the Land, other than
liens in favor of Lender.  

  3.11.            Utilities.
All utility services necessary for the full use, development and enjoyment of
the Land as currently improved, are available at no cost or expense at the
title lines of the Land (or, if they pass through adjoining private land, in
accordance with valid public or unencumbered private easements which inure to
the benefit of Borrower and run with the Land, copies of which have been
delivered to Lender) including, without limitation, sanitary sewers, storm
sewers, water, electricity, and telephone.  

  3.12.            Roads. The
Land is located along a dedicated public street, and if not located a dedicated
public street, access to the Land is insured, and all curb-cut and street opening
permits or licenses required for vehicular access to and from the Land to any adjoining
public street or highway have been obtained and paid for by Borrower and are in
full force and effect. All roads necessary for the full utilization of the Land
for its intended purposes have either been completed or the necessary rights of
way therefore have been acquired by Borrower or by the appropriate Governmental
Authority having jurisdiction.  

  3.13.            Insurance. No
notice has been received from any insurance company which issued any of the insurance
policies or any of their agents, brokers or representatives, stating in effect
that any such policy (i) will not be renewed, (ii) will be renewed only at a
higher premium that is presently payable therefore, or (iii) will be renewed only
with lesser or less complete coverage than is presently provided.  

  3.14.            No Default.
No event has occurred and is continuing that is an Event of . Default or which would
be an Event of Default with the passage of time or the giving of notice or
both.  

  3.15.            Condemnation.
There is no pending condemnation, expropriation, eminent domain or similar
proceeding affecting the Land or any portion thereof, and Borrower had not
received any written or oral notice of any thereof and has no knowledge that any
such proceeding is contemplated.  

  3.16.            Leases: Agreements
for Purchase. There are no leases or agreements of purchase and sale for all or
any portion of the Land.  

  3.17.            Representations
and Warranties True and Correct. The representations and warranties of Borrower
made to Lender are true, correct and complete in every material respect. No representation,  

5     

warranty or statement of
Borrower contained herein or in any of the Loan Documents or in any other document,
instrument or certificate delivered to Lender pursuant hereto or in connection with
the transactions contemplated hereunder contains any untrue statement of any
material fact, or omits or shall omit to state a material fact the absence of
which makes such representation, warranty or statement misleading.  

  3.18             Compliance
With Laws Respecting Acquisition. Borrower shall and has complied with all requirements
of local and state law in connection with the acquisition ofthe Land.  

  4.   COVENANTS
OF BORROWER  

  4.1.              Affirmative Covenants.
Borrower covenants and agrees that, from the date hereof and so long as this
Agreement shall remain in effect or the indebtedness evidenced by the Note shall
remain outstanding, Borrower shall:  

  4.1.1.           Existence.
Do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep Borrower s legal
existence in full force and effect under the laws of the State of Delaware and Spitz,
Inc. s foreign registration in full force and effect under the laws of the Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania and in any other jurisdiction in which Borrower may have been
organized, and to remain and cause Borrower to remain qualified and licensed in
all jurisdictions in which such qualification or licensing is required for the
conduct of Borrower s business, including, without limitation, Pennsylvania.
Borrower shall promptly deliver to Lender any and all documents evidencing an amendment
to or modification of the articles of incorporation, certificate of organization,
bylaws, operating agreements or other organization documents respecting
Borrower.  

  4.1.2.           Required Notices.
Give, or cause to be given, prompt written notice to Lender of (i) any action
or proceeding instituted by or against Borrower or the Land by or before any Governmental
Authority, or any such proceeding threatened against Borrower, the Land which,
if adversely determined, could have a material and adverse effect upon the business,
assets or condition (financial, legal or otherwise) of Borrower or the Land, (ii)
any other action, event or condition of any nature which may have a material
and adverse effect upon the business or assets of Borrower or which, with the
giving of notice or the passage of time or both, would constitute an Event of Default
under this Agreement or a default under any other material contract, instrument
or agreement to which Borrower is a party or by which Borrower or any of
Borrower s properties or assets may be bound or subject, or (iii) any action or
proceeding respecting the current development and use of the Land for
commercial purposes.  

  4.1.3.           Payment of
Debts, Taxes. Pay and discharge or cause to be paid and discharged when due and
prior to the accrual thereon of interest or penalty, all taxes, assessments and
governmental charges or levies imposed upon the Land, Borrower or their income
or receipts, or any of their properties, as well as all lawful claims for
labor, materials and supplies or otherwise which, if unpaid, might become a lien
or charge upon such properties or any part thereof, unless the same shall be contested
by Borrower in good faith and with due diligence by appropriate proceedings and
Borrower shall have posted a bond or escrow with Lender equal to such contested
amount.  

  4.1.4.           Compliance. Promptly
and faithfully comply with, conform to and obey all present and future Legal Requirements
applicable to  

6     

Borrower, or the Land,
all present and future requirements affecting title to the Land, the Loan
Documents, all  agreements of purchase, if any, for all or any portion of the Land,
and all leases now or hereafter entered into from time to time, and all other
agreements and covenants to which Borrower is bound or subject. Promptly and faithfully
comply with, conform to and obey all present and future orders, rules, regulations
and requirements of any national or local board of fire underwriters relating in
any way to the Land or any portion thereof. Promptly pay all license and permit
fees and similar municipal charges relating in any way to the Land or any portion
thereof or the construction or use of any building and improvement placed or to
be placed upon and forming a part of the Land. Borrower shall immediately notify
Lender of Borrower  s receipt of notice from any Governmental Authority or any national
or local board of fire underwriters relating to the construction, use or occupancy
of the Land or any part thereof, or which requires any action to be taken with respect
to the Land or any part thereof or which could have an adverse effect on the
Land or any part thereof.  

  4.1.5.           Maintenance.
Cause the Land to be kept in good condition and repair as set forth in the Mortgage,
and operate the same properly, efficiently and in compliance with all Legal
Requirements.  

  4.1.6.           Books and Records.
Keep, or cause to be kept, in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles consistently applied, proper and complete books of record and
account concerning affairs of Borrower and the Land and make such records available
in Borrower s offices at all reasonable times upon reasonable prior notice for inspection
by Lender. Borrower agrees to maintain accounting records for the Land separate
from any other accounting records which Borrower may maintain. Borrower agrees
to retain all such books and records for a period of two (2) years after the repayment
in full of the Loan.  

  4.1.7.           Financial
Statements. So long as the Loan or any portion thereof remains outstanding, Borrower,
at Borrower s sole cost and expense, shall deliver or cause to be delivered to
Lender current and complete financial statements and other information on a
consolidated basis as follows:  

  a.                 Within ninety
(90) days following the end of Borrower s fiscal year and each fiscal quarter, respectively,
in each year, Borrower shall deliver to Lender the Borrower s Annual Report on
Form 10-KSB and quarterly report on Form 10-QSB, each of which will include
financial statements consisting of a balance sheet, income statement and
statement of source and application of funds for Borrower. Such financial statements
for Borrower (i) shall, in the case of the annual statements be accompanied by
an audit opinion by a certified public accounting firm selected and paid for by
Borrower and satisfactory to Lender (it being agreed that the Borrower s certified
public accounting firm as of the Closing Date is acceptable to the Lender), (ii)
shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently
applied, (iii) shall be in form reasonably satisfactory to Lender and (iv)
shall be  certified as true, correct and complete by the Borrower s chief financial
officer.  

  b.                 Borrower shall
deliver to Lender such other financial information as to Borrower as Lender
from time to time may request, all such information to be provided in form and time
frame reasonably satisfactory to Lender.  

7     

c.                 Within thirty
(30) days of the date the same are due for filing (including any available extensions
properly applied for) Borrower shall deliver to Lender copies of Borrower s Federal
Income Tax Returns. All copies of such returns shall be certified by Borrower
as true and correct and as actually filed with the Internal Revenue Service.  

  All
such financial statements required by Lender hereunder shall be prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied by an
independent certified public accountant acceptable to Lender. Borrower shall
promptly notify Lender in writing if there is any material adverse change since
the date of the last preceding statement submitted to Lender in the financial position
of Borrower, and if there has been such a change, a detailed explanation
thereof.  

  4.1.8.
Change in Circumstances. Promptly notify Lender in writing of any change in any
fact or circumstance represented or warranted by Borrower herein or in any other
documents furnished to Lender in connection with this Agreement.  

  4.1.9.           Additional Instruments.
Execute such additional instruments as may be requested by Lender in order to
carry out the intent of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and to
perfect or give further assurances of any of the rights granted or provided for
hereunder or under any of the other Loan Documents.  

  4.1.10.         Indemnification.
Indemnify, defend and hold harmless Lender and its officers, directors, employees
and agents from and against any and all liabilities, losses, claims, damages
and expenses, including reasonable attorneys  fees and expenses, of any kind or
nature directly or indirectly resulting from or arising out of the Loan, or the
Loan Documents, or any act or omission by Lender or its officers, directors, employees
or agents, in connection therewith, including, without limitation, all claims
for commissions by any broker or intermediary, disputes between or among Borrower,
any Governmental Authorities, subcontractors, material suppliers, purchasers and
tenants, unless caused by the gross negligence or willful malfeasance of Lender
or its officers, directors, employees or agents.  

  4.1.11.         Reimbursement
of Costs. Reimburse Lender for all of Lender s costs payable to third parties incidental
to the preparation and making of the Loan, including, without limitation, monthly
credit reports, recording fees, filing fees, surveys and premiums for title insurance
as may be required by Lender, the fees and expenses of any consultant employed
by Lender, and all costs and expenses of Lender s counsel relating to preparation
or approval of any of the Loan Documents, examination of matters subject to
Lender s approval and legal services rendered in connection with Borrower s failure
to perform in accordance with the Loan Documents or otherwise relating to the
transaction. All such costs billed at or prior to the Closing Date shall be
paid on or before the Closing Date.  

  4.1.12.         Notices.
Forward to Lender copies of all notices given or received by Borrower to or
from; (i) any purchaser or tenant for any portion of the Land, (ii) any subcontractor
or material supplier respecting the Land, (iv) any insurer or insurance underwriters  

8     

respecting the Land or
Borrower s business, (v) any utility company respecting the Land or the Borrower s
business, or (vi) any Governmental Authority respecting the Land or the
Borrower s business (including, without limitation, notices of nonconforming
construction, notices relating to Hazardous Materials and any Environmental
Laws as those terms are defined in the Note and Mortgage, and notice of inability
to perform the terms of any contract or agreement), promptly upon the giving or
receipt of such notice.  

  4.1.13.         Loan Proceeds.
Use Loan proceeds for the purposes identified in the Commitment and this Loan
Agreement.  

  4.1.14.         Bank Accounts.
Borrower shall maintain all deposit, operating and escrow accounts relating to
the Land with Lender.  

  4.1.15.         Inspection. Permit
Lender, its agents, employees and representatives, to enter and to inspect the
Land at any reasonable time upon one (1) business day prior notice for the
purposes of making site and building investigations and performing soil, groundwater,
structural and other tests. Lender, or any persons designated by it, shall have
the right to call at Borrower s place or places of business at any reasonable time
upon one (1) business day notice, and without hindrance or delay, to inspect, audit,
check and make extracts from Borrower s books, records, journals, orders, receipts
and any correspondence and other data relating to the Borrower s business or to
any other transactions between the parties hereto, and shall have the right to
make direct verification from the account debtors with respect to any or all
accounts.  

  4.2.              Negative
Covenants. Borrower covenants and agrees that from the date hereof and for so
long as this Agreement shall remain in effect or the indebtedness evidenced by
the Note shall remain outstanding, Borrower shall not:  

  4.2.1.           Amendment or
Modification. Amend, vary or modify, or permit to be amended, varied or
modified, any agreement, document or instrument assigned to Lender.  

  4.2.2.           Conveyance. Sell,
assign, transfer, convey, lease or otherwise dispose of the Land, or any part thereof
or interest or estate therein, or otherwise permit ownership or control of the
Land or any portion thereof to be other than in Spitz, Inc.  

  4.2.3.           Governing Documents,
Directors. Amend, or permit to be amended, the governing documents pursuant to
which Borrower was organized and is operating or permit a change of the
majority of the members of the board of directors of Borrower during any twelve
(12) month period.  

  4.2.4.           Encumbrances.
Create by mortgage, pledge, assignment, security agreement or otherwise, or
suffer to exist, any security interest, pledge, lien, charge or other
encumbrance upon the Land or any portion thereof, except (i) the liens or security
interests created pursuant to the Loan Documents or other liens or security interests
in favor of Lender; (ii) mechanics or tax liens being contested by Borrower in
good faith and due diligence in appropriate proceedings with the approval of
Lender, a bond or escrow having been posted with Lender for the full amount of
such contested lien; and (iii) with the prior written consent of Lender,
easements and licenses for the operation of the Land.  

9     

4.2.5.           Other
Borrowing and Guaranties. Undertake any additional financing in connection with
the purchase or improvement of the Land or any part thereof, or borrow, in the
aggregate, any sum in excess of Two Hundred Thousand ($200,000.00) from any
person or persons, or assume, guaranty, endorse or otherwise become contingently
liable upon, or responsible for, the obligation of any person other than as expressly
provided in the Loan Documents, if to do so in the judgment of Lender would have
a material adverse impact on the financial condition or status of Borrower.  

  5.   EVENTS
OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES.  

  5.1.              Events of Default.
The occurrence of anyone or more of the following shall constitute an  Event of
Default  hereunder:  

  5.1.1.           The occurrence
of an event of default under the Note or any other Loan Document.  

  5.1.2.           The issuance
of any levy, writ or process of execution or attachment against Borrower or any
property or assets of Borrower, including without imitation the Land, or the
levy or service of any such writ.  

  5.1.3.           The entry or
filing of any judgment, lien, encumbrance, notice oflien, attachment, levy or
any other adverse charge against Borrower or the Land or any portion thereof which
is not discharged within twenty (20) days unless it is being contested by
Borrower in good faith and due diligence in appropriate proceedings with the approval
of Lender, a bond or escrow having been posted with Lender for the full amount
of such contested lien.  

  5.1.4.           The failure
of Borrower to comply with the requirements of any Governmental Authority concerning
the Land unless the same shall be contested by Borrower in good faith and with
due diligence by appropriate proceedings and Borrower shall have posted a bond
or escrow with Lender in an amount satisfactory to Lender.  

  5.1.5.           The failure
of Borrower to maintain any insurance or policy of insurance required by this Agreement
or the Mortgage for a period in excess often (10) days from the date of written
notice from Lender of the lapse or absence of any such insurance or policy of insurance.  

  5.1.6.           The failure
of Borrower to provide or furnish to Lender within thirty (30) days of written
request, proof of any insurance or policy of insurance required by this
Agreement or the Mortgage.  

  5.1.7.           The failure
of Borrower to provide or furnish to Lender within thirty (30) days of written
request, any financial statement, tax return or other information required to
be delivered to Lender pursuant to this Agreement or any other Loan Document.  

  5.1.8.           The failure
of Borrower to comply, after any applicable notice or cure period, with any requirements
of any recorded instrument or other agreement concerning the Land.  

10     

5.1.9.           The making
by Borrower of any amendment to or modification to any document, instrument or
item which has been approved by Lender in accordance with the provisions hereof  

  5.1.10.         The failure
by Borrower to pursue promptly and with due diligence and in good faith any
remedy under any contract or agreement with respect to the Land available as
the result of any material default by the other party thereto.  

  5.1.11.         The failure
of Borrower to perform or comply with any of the terms, conditions, provisions,
agreements and covenants contained herein or in any of the Loan Documents or in
any other document, agreement or instrument given by or in behalf of Borrower in
connection with the Loan.  

  5.1.12.         The default by
Borrower or any affiliate, owner or subsidiary thereof, under any other loans
or indebtedness between Lender and Borrower or any affiliate, owner or subsidiary
thereof, including without limitation the occurrence of an event of default under
that certain Line Of Credit Agreement dated June 12, 1997 between Lender and Borrower,
amended by that certain Modification Agreement dated July 7, 2000, and further amended
by that certain Second Modification Agreement dated July 18, 2002, respecting a
Two Million ($2,000,000.00) Dollar commercial revolving line of credit.  

  5.1.13.         The falsity or
incorrectness, regarded by Lender as material, of any representation or
warranty made to Lender, or any financial statement given to Lender, by
Borrower in or in connection with the Loan, this Agreement or any of the Loan
Documents.  

  5.2.              Remedies.
Upon the occurrence of any Event of Default, Lender may exercise as it may deem
necessary or appropriate, any one or more of the following rights and remedies:  

  5.2.1.           Declare immediately
due and payable all sums under the Note which are then unpaid, together with
all accrued interest.  

  5.2.2.           Exercise any
other right or remedy provided herein, in any of the Loan Documents, at law or
in equity.  

  5.3.              Verification
of Amounts Due/Declaration of No Set-Off. In any action or proceeding for recovery
of any sums expended by Lender in connection with the operation and/or maintenance
of the Land or otherwise due to Lender pursuant to the terms hereof, a statement
of such expenditures, verified by the affidavit of an officer of Lender, shall
be prima facie evidence of the amounts so expended and of the propriety of and necessity
for such expenditures, and the burden of proving the contrary shall be upon
Borrower. Within ten (10) days after being requested to do so by Lender, Borrower
shall furnish to Lender or to any assignee of the Note and/or the Mortgage, a
written statement in form and substance satisfactory to Lender stating the entire
outstanding amount of the indebtedness evidenced by the Note and stating that Borrower
has no offsets, recoupments, counterclaims or defenses or, if such offsets, recoupments,
counterclaims or defenses are alleged to exist, the nature and extent thereof. In
the event Borrower fails to furnish to Lender a written statement within ten
(10) days after being requested to do so, or if such  

11     

statement does not
contain all of the information required, then except to the extent set forth in
Borrower s timely delivered written statement, Borrower shall be deemed to
accept and concur with Lender s statement of the entire outstanding amount of
the indebtedness evidenced by the Note and agree that Borrower has no offsets,
recoupments, counterclaims or defenses.  

  5.4.              Borrower s Property.
As security for the Loan and for the obligation and liabilities of Borrower
hereunder and under each of the Loan Documents, Lender is hereby given a lien
upon and a security interest in all funds and property of Borrower which may
hereafter be deposited with or come into the possession of Lender, and for such
purpose this Agreement shall constitute a security agreement under the Pennsylvania
Uniform Commercial Code and Lender shall have all rights and may exercise all
of the remedies of a secured party under the applicable provisions of the Pennsylvania
Uniform Commercial Codes with respect to such funds and property of Borrower.  

  5.5.              Remedies Cumulative.
The rights and remedies of Lender provided for in this Agreement, in any of the
other Loan Documents, and in any other instrument, document or agreement given
by or on behalf of Borrower in connection with the Loan, shall be cumulative
and concurrent and shall not be exclusive of any right or remedy provided by
law, in equity or otherwise. Said rights and remedies may, at the sole and exclusive
discretion of Lender, be pursued singly, successively or together, and may be
exercised as often as occasion therefore shall arise. No grace period, qualification
or condition stated with respect to any Event of Default shall change, modify, amend
or extend, or will be construed as an undertaking by Lender to change, modify, amend
or extend the time for making any installment due under the Note or the
Maturity Date, which time for making any installment and Maturity Date remain
always of the essence of this Agreement.  

  5.6.              Lender s
Right to Remedy Defaults. If Borrower fails to pay when due any sum required to
be paid by Borrower or fails to perform any obligation of Borrower hereunder, Lender,
at its option; upon at least ten (10) days prior notice to Borrower, shall have
the right, but not the obligation, to pay any such sum and to perform any such obligation
and Lender shall have the right, but not the obligation, to pay any sum or to take
any action which Lender deems necessary or advisable to protect the security for
the Loan including without limitation the Mortgage and the Land, all without
prejudice to any of Lender s rights or remedies available hereunder or under
any of the Loan Documents or under any other documents or instrument given by
or on behalf of Borrower in connection with the Loan, at law, or in equity. The
amount of all payments so made by Lender, together with all costs so incurred
by Lender, shall immediately be due and payable from Borrower to Lender, together
with interest at the rate set forth in the Note in the event of a default. All
such amounts, together with interest as aforesaid, shall be added to and
evidenced by the Note and be secured by the Mortgage, and Lender may charge all
such amounts and interest as advances of the Loan and may deduct such amounts
and interest as advances of the Loan thereafter to be advanced hereunder from
any funds or property deposited by Borrower with Lender.  

  6.   INSURANCE.  

  6.1.              Coverage. Borrower
shall, from and after the date hereof and at all times while this Agreement is in
effect or the Note remains outstanding, maintain at Borrower s sole expense, insurance
in amounts, with deductibles satisfactory to Lender written by stock or
nonassessable  

12     

mutual carriers licensed
in Pennsylvania with a general policy holders rating of  A  or better and a
financial rating of VI or better in the most recent edition of  Best s Key
Rating Guide, Property-Casualty , published by Alfred M. Best Co., Inc. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, Borrower shall maintain the following
minimum coverages, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by Lender:  

  6.1.1.           All risk, fire,
hazard and extended coverage insurance with vandalism and malicious mischief endorsements
on all buildings and structures to the extent of one hundred percent (100%) of
the replacement value thereof pursuant to full replacement value endorsements naming
Lender as mortgagee and additional insured pursuant to a standard mortgagee
loss payable clause, and;  

  6.1.2.           Commercial
general public liability insurance covering all operations of Borrower in connection
with the Collateral, with contractual liability endorsement, naming Lender as
additional insured in amounts not less than: (i) bodily injury: $3,000,000,000 for
each occurrence, $3,000,000,900 in the aggregate, and (ii) property damage: $1,000,000,000
for each occurrence, and $3,000,000_000 in the aggregate; and  

  6.1.3.           Rent insurance
against loss of income arising out of damage or destruction by fire or the perils
of extended coverage insurance, in an amount equal to one (1) year s gross
rental income to the owner of the Land, or business interruption insurance in
an amount as required by Lender from time to time, but not to exceed Mortgagee s
reasonable estimate of the annual cost of debt service on the Note, taxes;
insurance and maintenance for the Land.  

  6.2.              Certificates;
Notices.  

  6.2.1.           Borrower
shall furnish to Lender, certificates certifying to the insurance required by
Paragraph 6.1, (as Lender may request) and expressly granting Lender the same protections
as if Lender held the original policies, (i) on or before the closing date, (ii)
no fewer than twenty (20) days prior to the renewal or replacement of existing
coverage or the obtaining of additional coverage, and (iii) at any other time
upon the request of Lender.  

  6.2.2.           Each insurance
policy of Borrower shall contain a provision (i) requiring the insurer to
notify Lender, in writing and at least thirty (30) days in advance of any cancellation,
expiration or material change in the policy, and (ii) stating that any loss otherwise
payable thereunder shall be payable notwithstanding any act or neglect of the
insured and notwithstanding ( a) any change in title to or ownership of the Land
or (b) any provision of the policy relieving the insurer thereunder of
liability for any loss by reason of the existence of other policies of insurance
covering the Land against the peril involved, whether or not collectible, provided
such coverage is available to Borrower at reasonable cost.  

  6.2.3.           If the
insurance, or any part thereof, shall expire, or be withdrawn, or become void
or unsafe, in the opinion of Lender, by reason of Borrower s breach of any
condition thereof, or become void or unsafe, in the opinion of Lender, by
reason of the failure or impairment of the capital of any company issuing such certificates,
Borrower shall place new insurance in accordance with this Agreement. All
renewal policies, with premiums paid, shall be delivered to Lender at least thirty
(30) days prior to the expiration of the existing policies.  

13     

6.2.4.           The
insurance described in Paragraph 6.1 hereof shall not provide for deductibles
in excess of amounts approved by Lender and, though obtained, maintained and
paid for by Borrower, shall provide that loss thereunder shall be payable to
Lender under a standard mortgagee s loss payee clause.  

  6.3.              Lender May
Provide Insurance. In any instance where insurance is not provided by Borrower
as required hereunder, Lender may at its option, but shall not be required to, secure
such insurance as Lender deems appropriate to cover Lender s interests, without
obligation to insure Borrower s interests, and charge the cost of the same to
Borrower, to be secured by the Loan Documents.  

  7.   MISCELLANEOUS.  

  7.1.              Lender s
Discretion. If any condition of this Agreement requires the submission of
evidence of the existence or non-existence of a specified fact or facts, or
implies as a condition the existence or non-existence of such fact or facts, Lender
will, at all times, be free independently to establish to its satisfaction and
in its discretion (unless otherwise specified) such existence or non-existence.
Where any matter herein requires the approval or consent of the Lender, the decision
to give or refuse to give such approval or consent shall be within Lender s
discretion unless otherwise specified.  

  7.2.              No Third-Party
Beneficiary. The parties do not intend the benefits of this Agreement to inure
to any third party or any of their respective creditors for debts or claims accruing
to any such persons against Borrower. Lender shall not be liable for the manner
in which any advance may be applied by Borrower. Notwithstanding anything contained
herein or in any of the other Loan Documents, or any conduct or course of conduct
by or between Borrower and Lender before or after the execution of this Agreement,
this Agreement shall not be construed as creating any right, claim or cause of
action against Lender or any of its officers, directors, agents or employees, in
favor of any other person other than Borrower. Without limiting the generality
of the foregoing, any advances made to any insurer, contractor, subcontractor or
supplier of labor or materials or other creditor of Borrower, whether or not
such advances are approved by Lender, shall not be deemed a recognition by
Lender of third party beneficiary status of any such person. No part of the
Loan will be at any time subject or liable to attachment or levy at the suit of
any creditor of Borrower, or of any contractor, subcontractor or supplier of labor,
materials or services, or any of their respective creditors, and regardless of
any other term, condition or provision hereof, no such third party will have
any status, right or entitlement hereunder.  

  7.3.              Reliance on Representations
and Warranties. Lender shall be entitled to rely upon the representations and warranties
of Borrower set forth in any of the Loan Documents without any investigation by
Lender and notwithstanding any investigation conducted by Lender or on its behalf
before or after the date hereof.  

  7.4.              Assignment.  

  7.4.1.           The rights
of Borrower hereunder and under any other Loan Document shall not be assignable
in any respect without the prior  

14     

written consent of
Lender, which consent may be granted or withheld in Lender s sole discretion. In
any case, Borrower shall remain liable for repayment of all sums advanced hereunder
before and after such assignment.  

  7.4.2.           All or any portion
of the Loan or any of the Loan Documents may be endorsed, assigned or
transferred in whole or in part by Lender, and any such holder or assignee thereof
shall succeed to and be possessed of the rights of Lender under the Loan Documents
to the extent so endorsed, transferred or assigned.  

  7.4.3.           Subject to
the foregoing, this Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall inure to the
benefit of, Borrower and Lender and their respective personal representatives,
heirs, successors and assigns.  

  7.5.              Communications.
All communications required or permitted by this Agreement shall be in writing and
shall be deemed to have been given or made when hand delivered or delivered by
guaranteed overnight delivery, or upon deposit in the United States mail, postage
prepaid, certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, addressed as
follows:  

  7.5.1.           If to
Lender:  

  First Keystone Bank 
22 West State Street 
Media, Pennsylvania 19063 
Attention: A. Charles Amentt, Jr. 
Senior Vice President, Lending  

                    With a
required copy to:  

  Donn L. Guthrie, Esquire
 
10 Beatty Road  
Media, Pennsylvania 19063  

  7.5.2.           If to
Borrower:  

  Transnational
Industries, Inc. and  
Spitz, Inc.  
P.O. Box 198  
Route 1  
Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania 19317  

                    With a
required copy to:  

  Steven G.Brown, Esquire  
Petrikin, Wellman, Damico, Brown   Petrosa  
109 Chesley Drive  
Media, Pennsylvania 19063  

15     

or
in any case to such other address as either party may designate from time to
time by notice to the other in the manner set forth herein.  

  7.6.              Headings. The
headings preceding the text of the sections and subsections of this Agreement
are used solely for convenience of reference and shall not affect the meaning
or interpretation of this Agreement.  

  7.7.              Time of the Essence.
All dates and times for performance set forth herein or in any of the other Loan
Documents (whether or not elsewhere so stated) are of the essence.  

  7.8.              No Brokers. Borrower
represents and warrants that Borrower has taken no action which would or might render
it liable for payment of any brokerage or placement fees or commissions on
account of the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents, and Borrower
will indemnify, defend and hold harmless Lender from any claims made in
connection therewith.  

  7.9.              Governing Law.
The Agreement and all questions relating to its validity, interpretation, performance
and enforcement (including, without limitation, provisions concerning limitations
of actions), shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, notwithstanding any conflict-of-laws doctrines
of such state or other jurisdiction to the contrary, and without the aid of any
canon, custom or rule of law requiring construction against the draftsman.  

  7.10.            Severability.
Any provision in any of the Loan Documents which is determined to be unenforceable
or invalid shall be ineffective to the extent of such unenforceability or invalidity
without affecting the remaining provisions thereof.  

  7.11.            Survival.
All agreements, representations and warranties made in this Agreement shall
survive the closing hereunder and the making of all advances hereunder.  

  7.12.            Entire Agreement:
Controlling Document; Amendment. This Agreement, together with the exhibits
hereto, which are incorporated herein by reference, and the other Loan
Documents embody the entire agreement and understanding between Borrower and
Lender with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior commitments,
agreements and understandings relating to the subject matter hereof. The
provisions of this Agreement (including the exhibits attached hereto) shall be
deemed complementary to the provisions of the other Loan Documents, but in the event
of conflict, the provisions hereof shall be deemed to modify and supersede the conflicting
provisions in such other Loan Documents and to control to the extent enforceable
under applicable law. Neither this Agreement nor any of the other Loan Documents
may be modified or amended except by a written agreement executed by the party against
which enforcement is sought.  

  7.13.            Indulgences,
Etc. Neither the failure nor any delay on the part of either party to exercise any
right, remedy, power or privilege under this Agreement (a  Right ) shall
operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any
Right preclude any other or further  

16     

exercise of the same or
of any other Right, nor shall any waiver of any Right with respect to any
occurrence be construed as a waiver of such Right with respect to any other occurrence.
No waiver shall be effective unless it is in writing and. is signed by the
party asserted to have granted such Waiver.  

  7.14             Counterparts.
This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, via facsimile
transmission or otherwise, each of which will be deemed an original, but all of
which together will constitute one and the same instrument.  

  7.15.            TRIAL BY
JURY. BORROWER AND LENDER HEREBY KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVE
ANY RIGHT EITHER MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION BASED
HEREON, OR ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH, THIS AGREEMENT, THE
NOTE, THE MORTGAGE, ANY OTHER DOCUMENT OR INSTRUMENT RELATING HERETO OR THERETO,
ANY OTHER TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY OR ANY COURSE OF CONDUCT,
COURSE OF DEALING, STATEMENTS (WHETHER VERBAL OR WRITTEN) OR ACTIONS OF THE
LENDER OR BORROWER IN CONNECTION HEREWITH OR THEREWITH. THIS PROVISION IS A MATERIAL
INDUCEMENT FOR THE LENDER TO MAKE THE LOAN EVIDENCED BY THE NOTE.  

  [THIS
SPACE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK. SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS.]  

17     

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, and intending to be legally bound hereby, Borrower and Lender,
have caused this Agreement to be duly executed under seal as of the date first
above written.  

LENDER: 

FIRST KEYSTONE
  BANK  

BY:  

/s/ A. Charles Amentt, Jr.  

BORROWER:  

TRANSNATIONAL
  INDUSTRIES, INC.  

BY:  

/s/ Jonathan Shaw  

ATTEST:  

/s/ Paul Dailey  

[Corporate Seal]  

SPITZ, INC.  

BY:  

/s/ Jonathan Shaw  

ATTEST:  

/s/ Paul Dailey  

[Corporate Seal]  

18  

</EX-10.27>

<EX-10.28>
 7
 a07-5744_1ex10d28.htm
 EX-10.28

EXHIBIT
10.28   

   FIRST MODIFICATION
AGREEMENT     

   THIS
FIRST MODIFICATION AGREEMENT   (the  Agreement )    is made and entered into this      30    th       day of  March ,
 2007 , by and between  First Keystone Bank  (the  Bank ), chartered under the Laws
of the United States of America, having its principal office at 22 West State
Street, Media, Pennsylvania, 19063,  Spitz, Inc. , a
Delaware corporation (the  Borrower ), with an address of P.O. Box 198, Route
1, Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania, 19317, and  Evans   Sutherland
Computer Corporation , a Utah corporation (the  Guarantor ).  The Bank, Borrower and Guarantor are
sometimes herein referred to as a  Party  and collectively as the  Parties . 

    Background      

   A.              Bank extended to
Borrower and  Transnational Industries, Inc. , a
Delaware corporation ( Transnational ), a credit facility on January 14, 2004,
(the  Loan ) in the original principal sum of  Three
Million Two Hundred Thousand Dollars ($3,200,000.00)  evidenced by
that certain Mortgage Note (the Note ) made by Borrower and Transnational and
delivered to Bank on January 14, 2004. 
The Loan was advanced to finance the acquisition of the premises known
as  Route 1, Chadds Ford Township, Delaware County,
Pennsylvania, being Folio No. 04-00-00034-02  and operated by
Borrower as its principal business office. 

   B.              The Loan is
further evidenced by that certain Loan Agreement by and among the Borrower,
Transnational and Bank dated January 14, 2004 (the  Loan Agreement ). 

   C.              In addition to the
Loan, Bank extended to Borrower a line of credit facility in the original
maximum principal sum of Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000.00) (the  Line of
Credit ) to be advanced pursuant to that certain Line of Credit Agreement
between Borrower, Guarantor and Bank dated April 28, 2006 (the Line of Credit
Agreement ). 

   D.              On or about April 28, 2006,
Transnational sold all of Transnational s one hundred percent (100%) ownership
interest in and to Borrower to Guarantor. 

   E.               In connection with the origination
of the Line of Credit and the sale by Transnational of all of Transnational s
interests in and to Borrower, Bank released Transnational as a co-borrower
under the Loan as more fully set forth in the Line of Credit Agreement. 

   F.               The Loan
Agreement sets forth certain financial covenants of the Borrower, including
without limitation a covenant to deliver to Bank within ninety (90) days
following the end of Borrower s fiscal year and each fiscal quarter,
respectively, in each year, the Borrower s Annual Report on Form 10-KSB and
quarterly report on Form 10-QSB, (the  Financials ), and a covenant to provide
Bank, within thirty (30) days of the date the same are due for filing, copies
of Borrower s Federal Income Tax Returns (the  Tax Returns ). 

G.              Guarantor is a publicly traded
company and, pursuant to the Line of Credit Agreement, has agreed to provide to
Bank, within ninety (90) days following the end of Guarantor s fiscal year and
each fiscal quarter, respectively, in each year, Guarantor s Annual Report on
Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q. 

   H.              As a wholly owned
subsidiary of Guarantor, Borrower is no longer required to prepare separate
audited financials or file a separate income tax return and Borrower and
Guarantor have requested that Bank waive the requirement that Financials and
Tax Returns be provided. 

   I.                As of the date
hereof the outstanding principal balance of the Loan is  Two Million
Nine Hundred Thirteen Thousand Dollars Nine Hundred Sixty Two and 53/100
dollars ($2,913,962.53) . 

   J.               Guarantor has agreed to guarantee
the Loan as more fully set forth in that certain Guaranty dated even date
herewith (the  Guaranty ) in consideration of the agreement of Bank to grant
Borrower s and Guarantor s aforementioned request and modify the terms of the
Loan Agreement. 

   K.              Bank has no
obligation to modify the terms of the Loan. Bank is willing to grant Borrower s
and Guarantor s aforementioned request on the terms and conditions set forth in
this Agreement. 

    Agreement      

   NOW
THEREFORE,   in consideration of the sum of One ($1.00) Dollar
and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which
are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties
hereto hereby covenant and agree as follows: 

   1.               The Background
recitals are incorporated herein by reference. 

   2.               Sections 4.1.7
(a) and (c) of the Loan Agreement respecting the requirement that Borrower
provide Financials and Tax Returns to the Bank are deleted in their entirety. 

   3.               So long as the Loan or any portion
thereof remains outstanding, Guarantor, at Guarantor s sole cost and expense,  shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Bank
current and complete financial statements and other information as follows: 

  (a)           Within ninety (90) days following the
end of Guarantor s fiscal year and each fiscal quarter, respectively, a copy of
Guarantor s Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q, each
of which will include financial statements consisting of a balance sheet,
income statement and statement of source and application of funds for
Guarantor.  Such financial statements for
Guarantor shall: (i) in the case of the annual statements be accompanied by an
audit opinion by a certified public accounting firm selected and paid for by
Guarantor and satisfactory to Bank (it being agreed that Guarantor s current
certified public accounting firm or other nationally recognized public
accounting firm is acceptable to the Bank), (ii) be prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied, (iii) be  

2     

in form reasonably
satisfactory to Bank and (iv) be certified as true, correct and complete by
Guarantor s chief financial officer.  

  (b)           Such additional financial and other
information as the Bank    may from time
to time reasonably request, subject to applicable Securities laws and other
requirements for publicly traded companies.  

  Guarantor shall
promptly notify Bank  in writing if there
is any material adverse change since the date of the last preceding statement
submitted to Bank in the financial position of Guarantor, and if there has been
such a change, a detailed explanation thereof.  

   4.               Borrower and
Guarantor hereby ratify and affirm all of the terms, conditions and provisions
of the Loan Agreement, the Note, the Guaranty and all other documents executed
and delivered by Borrower or Guarantor in connection with the Loan, to the
extent the same are not otherwise expressly modified herein.  It is expressly agreed and understood that
except as expressly provided in this Agreement, the terms, conditions and
provisions set forth in the Loan Agreement, the Note, and all other documents
executed and delivered by Borrower or Guarantor in connection with the Loan
shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with their respective
terms, conditions and provisions. 
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, nothing in this
Agreement shall be construed to: 

   (i)              impair the validity, perfection
or priority of any lien or security interest securing the Loan; 

   (ii)             waive or impair any rights,
powers or remedies of Bank under the Loan Agreement, the Note, the Guaranty and
all other documents executed and delivered by Borrower or Guarantor in
connection with the Loan with respect to any defaults thereunder which may
occur; 

   (iii)           require Bank to hereafter amend or
modify the terms of the Loan Agreement, the Note, the Guaranty or any other
documents executed and delivered by Borrower or Guarantor in connection with
the Loan; or 

   (iv)            make any other loan or other
extension of credit to Borrower or Guarantor. 

  In the event of
any inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement and the Loan Agreement,
this Agreement shall govern.  Borrower
and Guarantor each acknowledge that it has consulted with counsel in connection
with the negotiation and delivery of this Agreement.  This Agreement shall be construed without
regard to any presumption or rule requiring that it be construed against the
party causing this Agreement or any part of this Agreement to be drafted.  

   5.               Borrower and
Guarantor hereby acknowledge and agree that no setoff or counterclaim to
Borrower s and Guarantor s obligations evidenced by the Loan Agreement, the
Note, the Guaranty and all other documents executed and delivered by Borrower
or Guarantor in connection with the Loan exists, and no agreement has been made
with any person under which any deduction or discount may be claimed, that to
the best of Borrower  s and Guarantor s knowledge, information and 

3     

belief, no Event
of Default (as defined in the Loan Agreement) has occurred which is continuing
and no event has occurred which with the passage of time or the giving of
notice or both, could become an Event of Default under the Loan Agreement.  

   IN
WITNESS WHEREOF,   the parties hereto have caused this
Agreement to be executed on the day and year first above written. 

BANK:   

FIRST KEYSTONE BANK   

BY:  

/s/ David Ffrench  

BORROWER:   

SPITZ, INC.,   A Delaware
  Corporation 

/s/ Calvin
  Eddings  

BY: /s/ Paul L. Dailey  

Witness  

/s/ Calvin
  Eddings  

ATTEST: /s/ David H. Bateman  

Witness  

[Corporate Seal]  

GUARANTOR:   

EVANS   SUTHERLAND COMPUTER 
  CORPORATION,   a Utah Corporation 

/s/ Calvin
  Eddings  

BY: /s/ David H. Bateman  

Witness  

/s/ Calvin
  Eddings  

ATTEST: /s/ Paul L. Dailey  

Witness  

[Corporate Seal]  

4  

</EX-10.28>

<EX-10.29>
 8
 a07-5744_1ex10d29.htm
 EX-10.29

EXHIBIT
10.29   

   SECOND
MODIFICATION AGREEMENT     

   THIS
SECOND MODIFICATION AGREEMENT   (the  Agreement )    is made and entered into this      30    th       day of  March ,  2007 , by and
between  First Keystone Bank  (the  Bank ),
chartered under the Laws of the United States of America, having its principal
office at 22 West State Street, Media, Pennsylvania, 19063,  Spitz, Inc. , a Delaware corporation (the  Borrower ), with
an address of P.O. Box 198, Route 1, Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania, 19317, and  Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation , a Utah
corporation (the  Guarantor ).  The Bank,
Borrower and Guarantor are sometimes herein referred to as a  Party  and
collectively as the  Parties . 

    Background      

   A.              Bank extended to
Borrower a line of credit facility on April 28, 2006, (the  Loan ) in the
maximum principal sum of  Three Million Dollars
($3,000,000.00)  evidenced by that certain Line of Credit Note (the  Note )
made by Borrower and delivered to Bank on April 28, 2006.  The Loan is to be advanced pursuant to the
terms of a Line of Credit Agreement between Bank, Borrower and Guarantor dated
April 28, 2006 (the  Line of Credit Agreement ).   All capitalized terms not specifically
defined herein shall have the meanings given such terms as set forth in the
Line of Credit Agreement. 

   B.              The Parties
entered into that certain First Modification Agreement dated July 28, 2006 (the
 First Modification ), wherein, among other modifications, the parties agreed
to reduce the Maximum Credit Limit to the 
lesser of (i)  One Million One Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($1,100,000.00),  or (ii) the sum of (a) eighty
(80%) percent of the Borrower s Qualified Accounts Receivable and (b) fifty
(50%) percent of Borrower s Qualified Inventory. 

   C.              On or about April 28, 2006,
Transnational Industries, Inc., a Delaware corporation, sold all of
Transnational s one hundred percent (100%) ownership interest in and to
Borrower to Guarantor. 

   D.              The Line of Credit Agreement sets
forth certain financial covenants of the Borrower, including without limitation
a covenant to provide Bank within ninety (90) days following the end of
Borrower s tax year, current year end audited financial statements including,
without limitation, a balance sheet, income statement and statement of source
and application of funds (collectively the  Audited Financials ), and a
covenant to provide Bank within sixty (60) days of the date the same are due
for filing, copies of Borrower s Federal Income Tax Returns (the  Tax Returns ). 

   E.               Guarantor is a publicly traded
company and, pursuant to the Line of Credit Agreement, has agreed to provide to
Bank, within ninety (90) days following the end of Guarantor s fiscal year and
each fiscal quarter, respectively, Guarantor s Annual Report on Form 10-K and
quarterly report on Form 10-Q. 

F.               As a wholly owned
subsidiary of Guarantor, Borrower is no longer required to prepare separate
audited financials or file a separate income tax return and Borrower and
Guarantor have requested that Bank waive the requirement that Audited
Financials and Tax Returns be provided. 

   G.              As of the date
hereof the outstanding principal balance of the Loan is  Seven
Hundred Ninety Nine Thousand Nine Hundred Eighty and 06/100 Dollars
($799,980.06) . 

   H.              Bank has no
obligation to modify the terms of the Loan. Bank is willing to grant Borrower s
aforementioned request on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. 

    Agreement      

   NOW
THEREFORE,   in consideration of the sum of One ($1.00) Dollar
and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which
are hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties
hereto hereby covenant and agree as follows: 

   1.               The Background
recitals are incorporated herein by reference. 

   2.               Sections 4.1.6.1
(a) and (b) of the Line of Credit Agreement respecting the requirement that
Borrower provide Audited Financials and Tax Returns to the Bank are deleted in
their entirety. 

   3.               Borrower and
Guarantor hereby ratify and affirm all of the terms, conditions and provisions
of the Line of Credit Agreement, the Note, the First Modification, and all
other documents executed and delivered by Borrower or Guarantor in connection
with the Loan, to the extent the same are not otherwise expressly modified
herein.  It is expressly agreed and
understood that except as expressly provided in this Agreement, the terms,
conditions and provisions set forth in the Line of Credit Agreement, the Note,
the First Modification, and all other documents executed and delivered by
Borrower or Guarantor in connection with the Loan shall remain in full force and
effect in accordance with their respective terms, conditions and
provisions.  Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to: 

   (i)              impair the validity, perfection
or priority of any lien or security interest securing the Loan; 

   (ii)             waive or impair any rights,
powers or remedies of Bank under the Line of Credit Agreement, the Note, and
all other documents executed and delivered by Borrower or Guarantor in
connection with the Loan with respect to any defaults thereunder which may
occur; 

   (iii)           require Bank to hereafter amend or
modify the terms of the Line of Credit Agreement, the Note, or any other
documents executed and delivered by Borrower or Guarantor in connection with
the Loan; or 

   (iv)            make any other loan or other
extension of credit to Borrower or Guarantor. 

  In the event of
any inconsistency between the terms of this Agreement and the Line of Credit
Agreement, this Agreement shall govern. 
Borrower and Guarantor each acknowledge that it has  

2     

consulted with
counsel in connection with the negotiation and delivery of this Agreement.  This Agreement shall be construed without
regard to any presumption or rule requiring that it be construed against the
party causing this Agreement or any part of this Agreement to be drafted.  

   4.               Borrower and
Guarantor hereby acknowledge and agree that no setoff or counterclaim to
Borrower s and Guarantor s obligations evidenced by the Line of Credit
Agreement, the Note, and all other documents executed and delivered by Borrower
or Guarantor in connection with the Loan exists, and no agreement has been made
with any person under which any deduction or discount may be claimed, that to
the best of Borrower s and Guarantor s knowledge, information and belief, no
Event of Default (as defined in the Line of Credit Agreement) has occurred
which is continuing and no event has occurred which with the passage of time or
the giving of notice or both, could become an Event of Default under the Line
of Credit Agreement. 

   IN
WITNESS WHEREOF,   the parties hereto have caused this
Agreement to be executed on the day and year first above written. 

BANK:   

FIRST KEYSTONE BANK   

BY:  

/s/ David Ffrench  

BORROWER:   

SPITZ, INC.,   A Delaware Corporation 

/s/ Calvin Eddings  

BY: /s/ Paul L. Dailey  

Witness  

/s/ Calvin Eddings  

ATTEST: /s/ David H. Bateman  

Witness  

[Corporate Seal]  

GUARANTOR:   

EVANS   SUTHERLAND COMPUTER CORPORATION,   a
  Utah Corporation 

/s/ Calvin Eddings  

BY: /s/ David H. Bateman  

Witness  

/s/ Calvin Eddings  

ATTEST: /s/ Paul L. Dailey  

Witness  

[Corporate Seal]  

3  

</EX-10.29>

<EX-10.30>
 9
 a07-5744_1ex10d30.htm
 EX-10.30

EXHIBIT
10.30   

   GUARANTY     

    THIS
GUARANTY    is made this 
 30   
th    day of  March ,  2007 , by   EVANS   SUTHERLAND COMPUTER
CORPORATION ,    a Utah
corporation (hereinafter the  Guarantor ). 

    W I T N E S S E T H:      

   WHEREAS  ,
 SPITZ, INC. , a Delaware corporation
(hereinafter the  Borrower ), has executed and delivered to  FIRST KEYSTONE BANK  (hereinafter the  Lender ), a Mortgage
Note in the original principal sum of  Three Million Two Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($3,200,000.00)  (the  Note ) made by Borrower and
Transnational Industries, Inc., a Delaware corporation ( Transnational ) and
delivered to Lender on January 14, 2004, evidencing a loan (the  Loan ) to
finance Borrower s acquisition of the premises known as  Route 1,
Chadds Ford Township, Delaware County, Pennsylvania,  being Folio No. 04-00-00034-02  and
operated by Borrower as its principal business office (the  Real Estate ).  The Loan is further evidenced by that certain
Loan Agreement between Borrower, Transnational and Lender dated January 14,
2004 (the  Loan Agreement  and 

   WHEREAS  ,
the Loan is secured by, among other things, that certain Open-End Mortgage and
Security Agreement dated January 14, 2004 (the  Mortgage ) encumbering the Real
Estate; and 

   WHEREAS,  
on or about April 28, 2006, Transnational sold all of Transnational s one
hundred percent (100%) ownership interest in and to Borrower to Guarantor; and 

   WHEREAS,  
in connection with the origination of a line of credit and the sale by
Transnational of all of Transnational s interests in and to Borrower, Lender
released Transnational as a co-borrower under the Loan; and 

   WHEREAS,  
the Loan Agreement sets forth certain financial covenants of the Borrower,
including without limitation a covenant to deliver to Lender within ninety (90)
days following the end of Borrower s fiscal year and each fiscal quarter,
respectively, a copy of the Borrower s Annual Report on Form 10-KSB and
quarterly report on Form 10-QSB, (the  Financials ), and a covenant to provide
Lender, within thirty (30) days of the date the same are due for filing, copies

of Borrower s
Federal Income Tax Returns (the  Tax Returns  and  

   WHEREAS,  
Guarantor is a publicly traded company and, pursuant to that certain First
Modification Agreement dated even date herewith (the  First Modification
Agreement ), Guarantor has agreed to provide to Lender Bank, within ninety (90)
days following the end of Guarantor s fiscal year and each fiscal quarter,
respectively, in each year, Guarantor s Annual Report on Form 10-K and
quarterly report on Form 10-Q; and 

   WHEREAS,   as
a wholly owned subsidiary of Guarantor, Borrower is no longer required to
prepare separate audited financials or file a separate income tax return and
Borrower and Guarantor have requested that Lender waive the requirement that
Financials and Tax Returns be provided; and 

   WHEREAS  ,
Lender has agreed to waive the requirement that Financials and Tax Returns be
provided in consideration, among other things, of the covenants and obligations
made and assumed by Guarantor as herein set forth; and 

   WHEREAS  ,
the outstanding principal balance of the Note, together with interest and all
other sums due or to become due thereunder is referred to herein as the  Indebtedness 
and 

   WHEREAS  ,
Guarantor has agreed to make this Guaranty in consideration of the agreement of
Lender to modify the Loan as more fully set forth in the First Modification
Agreement; and 

   WHEREAS  ,
in order to induce Lender to enter into the First Modification Agreement, the
Guarantor herein executes this Guaranty. 

   NOW
THEREFORE  , for good and valuable consideration, intending to
be legally bound hereby, Guarantor agrees as follows: 

  1.               Guaranty
of Performance  .  Guarantor
absolutely and unconditionally, jointly and severally, guarantees to Lender the
payment and performance of the conditions of the Note, pursuant to the terms
and conditions set forth therein, together with all reasonable legal and other
expenses of collection, and hereby expressly and unconditionally waives demand,
notice of presentment and non-payment, protest and notice of protest, of the
Note, and agrees that the time for payment thereof may be extended by Lender
without notice to or further consent from the Guarantor.  Guarantor further agrees to pay the full
unpaid principal, interest and other charges due under the Note when owing
immediately upon written notice of an Event of Default as to any  

2     

one or more of the
terms and conditions of the Note, First Modification Agreement, Mortgage, Loan
Agreement or any other document executed by Borrower and/or Guarantor and
delivered to Lender in connection with the Loan (collectively referred to
herein as the  Loan Documents ), it being agreed between the parties hereto
that the full balance when due and owing on the Note shall become due and
payable upon acceleration by the Lender in accordance with the terms of the
Note.  

  2.               No Waiver  .  Any waiver by Lender of an Event of Default
under the Loan Documents, and any failure on the part of Lender to enforce its
rights against Borrower, or its successors or assigns, shall not affect the
absolute and unconditional liability of the Guarantor.  Any extensions of time granted by Lender to
Borrower, or its successors or assigns, shall not release the Guarantor from
its obligations hereunder.  

  3.               Actions
Not Affecting Guarantor     s Liability  .  In addition to (but not in limitation of) all
of the foregoing provisions, Lender may take any of the following actions (with
or without notice to the Guarantor) without affecting the liability of the
Guarantor in any way:  

  a.             release, exchange, increase or
decrease, or surrender all or any part of the security held by it for the
Indebtedness, or substitute new security for all or any portion thereof,
whether or not the new security shall be equal in value with the security
substituted;  

  b.             recast, extend or modify all or any
portion of the Indebtedness;  

  c.             grant waivers, extensions, renewals
or other indulgences under the Note;  

  d.             modify or amend any of the terms,
provisions or agreements contained in the Note  

  e.             vary, exchange, release or
discharge, wholly or partially, or delay in or abstain from perfecting or
enforcing any security or guaranty of the Note;  

  f.              accept partial payment or
performance of the Note from the Borrower; or  

  g.             compromise or make any settlement
or other arrangement with the Borrower.  

  4.               Direct
Proceedings Against Guarantor  . 
This shall be an agreement of suretyship as well as of guaranty.  Liability on this Guaranty shall not be
conditional or contingent upon the pursuance by Lender or anyone else of
whatever remedies it may have against Borrower, or its successors or assigns,
nor shall Lender be required to foreclose, exhaust,  

3     

or in any other
way look for the security which it now has or which it may obtain or in the
future may acquire. Not in limitation of the generality of the foregoing, the
liability of Guarantor hereunder shall remain effective and enforceable even
though Borrower s liability under the Note may be unenforceable, or recovery
against the Borrower may be barred by the statute of limitations or otherwise,
it being further understood and agreed that Guarantor waives any defense
arising by reason of any disability or other defense of Borrower or by reason
of the cessation from any cause whatsoever of the liability of Borrower.   The obligations and liabilities of Guarantor
hereunder and any other guarantor/surety of the Borrower s liabilities and
obligations under the Note, the First Modification Agreement, the Mortgage and
other Loan Documents, and all extensions, modifications and/or renewals
thereof, shall be joint and several.  

  5.               Extensions
or Renewals  .  Liability of
the Guarantor hereunder shall be a continuing one and shall extend to any and
all notes or other evidences of indebtedness which may be given in extension,
modification, increase or renewal of the present indebtedness of the Borrower
evidenced by the Note.  

  6.               Representations
and Warranties    The
Guarantor hereby represents and warrants that:  

  a.             The Guarantor has no offsets,
counterclaims or defenses against the Indebtedness or this Guaranty, and has
the legal capacity to enter into this Guaranty and to perform Guarantor s
obligations hereunder.  

  b.             This Guaranty constitutes the
legal, valid and binding obligation of the Guarantor enforceable against
Guarantor in accordance with its terms.  

  c.             There is no action, suit,
proceeding, inquiry or investigation, at law or in equity, or before or by any
court, public board or body, pending, or within the knowledge of the Guarantor
threatened, wherein an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding would adversely
affect the validity or enforceability of this Guaranty or any of the Loan
Documents.  

  d.             Neither the execution and delivery
of this Guaranty, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereunder
nor the fulfillment of or compliance with the terms and conditions obtained
herein is prevented or limited by, or would be prevented or limited by, or
conflict with, or breach, the terms, conditions or provisions of any law, rule,
regulations, order of any court or governmental agency, or any evidence of
indebtedness, agreement or instrument of  

4     

whatever nature to
which the Guarantor (or any company, corporation or other business entity
controlled by the Guarantor or affiliated with any one of them) is now a party,
or to which the Guarantor or any such entity is bound, or constitutes a default
under any of the foregoing. Such execution, delivery, consummation and
performance will not result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge
or encumbrance upon any of the property or assets of the Guarantor or any such
entity, except as contemplated in the Loan Documents.  

  e.             The assumption by the Guarantor of
its obligations hereunder will result in material benefits to the Guarantor.  

  f.              Neither this Guaranty nor any
other document, certificate or statement furnished to the Lender by or on
behalf of the Borrower or the Guarantor contains any untrue statement of a
material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the
statements contained herein and therein not misleading or incomplete.   The financial statements and tax returns of
Guarantor delivered to Lender prior to the date hereof are Guarantor=s most
current financial statements and tax returns available for public distribution
and fully and accurately present the financial condition and income of
Guarantor as of the date thereof, in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles consistently applied.  

  g.             As provided in the Loan Agreement,
the proceeds of the Note are to be applied by the Borrower to its business
purposes and no part thereof shall be used for the personal, household or
consumer purposes of the Borrower or the Guarantor.  

  7.               Compliance
With Loan Documents  .  The
Guarantor shall cause the Borrower to fully perform and observe all of the
covenants, agreements and obligations of the Borrower under the Note, First
Modification Agreement, the Mortgage and all other Loan Documents.  

  8.               Waiver of
Subrogation  .  The
Guarantor waives and relinquishes any right of subrogation or other right of
reimbursement, contribution or indemnification from the Borrower or the Borrower s
estate and any other right or payment from the Borrower or the Borrowers 
estate, arising out of or on account of any sums paid or agreed to be paid by
Guarantor under this Guaranty, whether any such right is reduced to judgment,
liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured, unmatured, disputed,
undisputed, secured, or unsecured.  The
provisions of this subparagraph are made for the express benefit of Borrower as
well as Lender and may be enforced independently by Borrower and Lender.  

5  

9.               Event of
Default  .  Any one or more
of the following shall constitute an  Event of Default  hereunder:  

  a.             Failure of the Guarantor to make
any payments or perform Guarantor s obligations pursuant to the terms hereof,
provided, however, Lender shall, in accordance with the terms of the Loan
Agreement, give to Guarantor all notices of default under the Loan, and
Guarantor shall have the same opportunity to cure, if any, as are applicable
with respect to the Borrower under the Loan Documents with any applicable cure
period running concurrently with any cure period applicable to Borrower.  

  b.             If any representation or warranty
made by the Guarantor pursuant to or in connection with this Guaranty or any
report, certificate, financial statement or other instrument or document
furnished by the Guarantor hereunder shall prove to be false or misleading in
any material respect.  

  c.             After the giving of any applicable
notice and expiration of any applicable cure period, the occurrence of an event
of default under the Note, the First Modification Agreement, the Mortgage or
any of the other Loan Documents.  

  10.             Remedies  .  Lender shall provide Guarantor with notice of
the occurrence of any Event of Default in accordance with the Notice provisions
contained in the Note.  If any one or
more Events of Default shall occur under this Guaranty,  then in each case, the Lender shall have all
rights and remedies, including, but not limited to, the right to (i) cause all
amounts payable hereunder and pursuant to the Note to be immediately due and
payable, whereupon the same shall become immediately due and payable; (ii) take
any other action available either in law or in equity to enforce performance or
collect any amounts due or thereafter to become due under this Guaranty, the
Note, the First Modification Agreement, the Mortgage or other Loan Documents
and exercise all rights and remedies of the Lender thereunder; or (iii) enforce
the observance of any of the covenants or obligations of the Guarantor under
this Guaranty, Note, Loan Agreement, First Modification Agreement, Mortgage or
any other Loan Document.  

  11.             Indemnification  . 
The Guarantor shall defend, hold harmless, and indemnify the Lender from
and against any and all claims, liabilities, judgments, liens, losses, damages,
costs, expenses, attorneys fees, and consultants fees incurred by or imposed
upon the Lender relating to any obligations on the part of the Borrower as set
forth in an Environmental Indemnity   

6     

Agreement dated
January 14, 2004.  

  12.             Costs of Suit  . 
This Guaranty shall include all reasonable attorneys  fees, expenses,
and disbursements incurred by Lender in the collection or enforcement of
payment or performance by Borrower of any obligation of Borrower to Lender, and
in the collection or enforcement of payment or performance by Guarantor
hereunder.  

  13.             Forbearance  . 
Neither the failure nor any delay on the part of Lender to exercise any
right, remedy, power or privilege under this Guaranty (a  Right ) shall operate
as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any Right
preclude any other or further exercise of the same or of any other Right, nor
shall any waiver of any Right with respect to any occurrence be construed as a
waiver of such Right with respect to any other occurrence.  No waiver shall be effective unless it is in
writing and is signed by the party asserted to have granted such waiver.  

  14.             Warrant of Borrowers Agreements and Representations  .  The Guarantor further unconditionally
guarantees to the same effect as above stated, the proper performance of any
and all agreements, representations, warranties and undertakings given to
Lender by Borrower in connection with the Loan by way of collateral security.  

  15.             Bankruptcy  .  This
Guaranty shall be a continuing Guaranty and (whether or not Guarantor shall
have any notice or knowledge of any of the following) the liability and
obligation of Guarantor hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional and shall
remain in full force and effect without regard to, and shall not be released,
discharged, or in any way impaired by any bankruptcy, insolvency,
reorganization arrangement, or similar proceeding relating to Borrower or any
co-Guarantor, or their properties.  

  16.             Waiver of Notice and Defense  .  The Guarantor hereby consents to all of the
terms and provisions of the Note, as the same may be from time to time amended
or modified. The Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives:  

  a.             Notice of acceptance of this
Guaranty and notice that the Note has been accepted by the Lender in reliance
hereon;  

  b.             Notice of any amendment or any
change in the terms of the Note or any of the other Loan Documents or any other
present or future agreement relating directly or indirectly thereto;  

7     

c.             Notice of any default under the
Note or any other Loan Document, or any other present or future agreement
relating directly or indirectly thereto;  

  d.             Demand for performance or
observance of and enforcement of any provisions of the Note, the First
Modification Agreement, the Mortgage or any other Loan Document or any pursuit
or exhaustion of any rights or remedies against the Borrower thereunder, or any
other obligor who becomes liable in any manner for any of the Indebtedness, and
any requirement of diligence or promptness on the part of the Lender in
connection therewith;  

  e.             Diligence, presentment, protest,
notice of dishonor and notice of default in the payment of any amount at any
time payable by the Borrower under or in connection with the Note;  

  f.              The benefit of any statute of
limitations affecting its liability hereunder or the enforcement thereof, and
agrees that any payment of any indebtedness or other act which shall toll any
statute of limitations applicable to the Note shall similarly operate to toll
such statute of limitations applicable to Guarantor s liability hereunder; or  

  g.             The benefit of laws exempting
property from levy or execution.  

  17.             Successors and Assigns  . 
The parties hereto agree that this Guaranty shall bind and inure to the
benefit of the Lender and its successors and assigns.  

  18.             Governing Law  . 
This Guaranty shall be governed by the substantive law of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.  

  19.             Assignment  . Lender may assign this Guaranty in whole or
in part to a party to whom the Note is assigned.  

  20.             Set-Off  .  In
addition to all liens upon, and rights of set-off against the monies,
securities, or other property of Guarantor given to Lender by law, Lender shall
have a lien upon and a right of set-off against all monies, securities and
other property of Guarantor now or hereafter in the possession of Lender. Every
such lien and right of set-off may be exercised without demand upon or notice
to Guarantor, no lien or right of set-off shall be deemed to have been waived
by any act or conduct on the part of Lender, or by any neglect to exercise such
right of set-off or to enforce such lien, or by any delay in so doing, and
every right of set-off and lien shall continue in full force and effect until
such right of set-off or lien is specifically waived or  

8     

released by an
instrument in writing executed by Lender.  

  21.             Subordination of Indebtedness  .  Any indebtedness of Borrower now or hereafter
held by Guarantor is hereby subordinated to this Guaranty, the Note, the
Mortgage and the First Modification Agreement. Any such indebtedness of
Borrower to Guarantor is assigned to Lender as security for this Guaranty and
the Note and, if upon an Event of Default under this Guaranty, Lender so
requests, shall be collected, enforced and received by Guarantor as trustee for
Lender and be paid over to Lender on account of the amounts due under the Note
but without reducing or affecting in any manner the liability of Guarantor
under the other provisions of this Guaranty. Any such notes now or hereafter
evidencing such indebtedness of Borrower to Guarantor shall be marked with a
legend that the same are subject to this agreement and, if Lender so requests,
shall be delivered to Lender.  

  22.             Intent of Language  . 
Reference to the Guarantor shall mean each Guarantor named above. The
obligations of the Guarantor hereunder shall be joint and several. When such
interpretation is appropriate, all words in the singular used herein shall
include the plural, and all words in the masculine shall also mean the
feminine, as the case may be.  

  23.             Severability  .  If
any term, provision, covenant or condition hereof should be held by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, all other
provisions, covenants and conditions hereof not held invalid, void or
unenforceable shall continue in full force and effect and shall in no way be
affected, impaired or invalidated thereby.  

  24.             No Set-Off  .  The
Guarantor shall make all payments required hereunder, free of any deductions,
and without abatement, deduction, or setoff.  

    CONFESSION OF JUDGMENT      

  25.           THE FOLLOWING SECTION SETS FORTH
WARRANTS OF ATTORNEY FOR ANY ATTORNEY TO CONFESS JUDGMENTS AGAINST
GUARANTOR.  IN GRANTING THESE WARRANTS OF
ATTORNEY TO CONFESS JUDGMENTS AGAINST GUARANTOR, GUARANTOR HEREBY KNOWINGLY,
INTENTIONALLY, VOLUNTARILY, AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVE(S) ANY AND ALL RIGHTS
GUARANTOR MAY HAVE TO PRIOR NOTICE AND AN OPPORTUNITY FOR HEARING UNDER THE
RESPECTIVE CONSTITUTIONS AND LAWS OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA AND THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.  

9     

UPON THE
OCCURRENCE OF AN EVENT OF DEFAULT, GUARANTOR HEREBY AUTHORIZES ANY ATTORNEY OF
ANY COURT OF RECORD IN PENNSYLVANIA, OR ELSEWHERE, TO APPEAR FOR GUARANTOR IN
ANY ACTION BROUGHT ON THIS GUARANTY, AND TO CONFESS JUDGMENT AGAINST GUARANTOR
FOR ALL PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST AND ALL OTHER SUMS THEN DUE PURSUANT TO THE
TERMS OF THE NOTE, FIRST MODIFICATION AGREEMENT, LOAN AGREEMENT, AND SUCH OTHER
LOAN DOCUMENTS, OR ANY OF THEM, AND FOR COSTS OF SUIT AND AN ATTORNEY S
COMMISSION OF THE LESSER OF THE ACTUAL FEES INCURRED, OR TEN PERCENT (10%) OF
THE AMOUNT CONFESSED, TOGETHER WITH INTEREST ON ANY JUDGMENT OBTAINED BY LENDER
AT THE RATE OF INTEREST SPECIFIED IN THE NOTE AFTER DEFAULT, INCLUDING INTEREST
AT THAT RATE FROM AND AFTER THE DATE OF ANY SHERIFF S SALE UNTIL ACTUAL PAYMENT
IS MADE BY THE SHERIFF TO LENDER OF THE FULL AMOUNT DUE LENDER, AND FOR SO
DOING THIS SHALL BE A GOOD AND SUFFICIENT WARRANT.  GUARANTOR WAIVES AND RELINQUISHES ALL ERRORS,
DEFECTS, AND IMPERFECTIONS IN THE ENTRY OF JUDGMENT AS AFORESAID, OR IN ANY
PROCEEDING PURSUANT THERETO, AND ALL BENEFITS UNDER ANY LAW OR RULE OF COURT
RELATING TO A STAY OF EXECUTION OR EXEMPTING ANY PROPERTY FROM LEVY OR SALE
UNDER EXECUTION.  THE AUTHORITY HEREIN
GRANTED TO CONFESS JUDGMENT SHALL NOT BE EXHAUSTED BY ANY EXERCISE THEREOF BUT
SHALL CONTINUE FROM TIME TO TIME AND AT ALL TIMES UNTIL ALL OBLIGATIONS OF
BORROWER TO LENDER HAVE BEEN FULLY DISCHARGED.  

/s/ DHB   

(Initials of Officer of Guarantor)   

10  

WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL      

  26.           GUARANTOR HEREBY KNOWINGLY,
VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT GUARANTOR MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY
JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION BASED HEREON, OR ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN
CONNECTION WITH, THIS GUARANTY, OR THE BORROWER=S OBLIGATIONS UNDER THE NOTE,
THE FIRST MODIFICATION AGREEMENT, THE LOAN AGREEMENT, ANY OTHER DOCUMENT OR
INSTRUMENT RELATING HERETO OR THERETO, ANY OTHER TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED
HEREBY OR THEREBY OR ANY COURSE OF CONDUCT, COURSE OF DEALING, STATEMENTS
(WHETHER VERBAL OR WRITTEN) OR ACTIONS OF THE BORROWER OR THE GUARANTOR IN
CONNECTION HEREWITH OR THEREWITH.  THIS
PROVISION IS A MATERIAL INDUCEMENT FOR THE LENDER TO MAKE THE LOAN EVIDENCED BY
THE NOTE.  

/s/ DHB   

(Initials of Officer of Guarantor)   

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF  , Guarantor has executed and sealed this
Guaranty the day and year first above written. 

WITNESS:   

GUARANTOR:   

EVANS   SUTHERLAND COMPUTER 
  CORPORATION  , a Utah Corporation 

/s/ Calvin Eddings 

BY: /s/ David H. Bateman  

Witness  

/s/ Calvin Eddings  

ATTEST: /s/ Paul L. Dailey  

Witness  

11  

</EX-10.30>

<EX-21.1>
 10
 a07-5744_1ex21d1.htm
 EX-21.1

Exhibit 21.1   

   EVANS   SUTHERLAND COMPUTER CORPORATION   

   SUBSIDIARIES
OF THE REGISTRANT   

State or Other   

Jurisdiction of   

Incorporation or   

Names Under Which   

Subsidiary
  Name   

Organization   

Each Subsidiary Does Business   

Evans  
  Sutherland Graphics Corporation  

Utah  

Evans   Sutherland Graphics Corporation  

Evans  
  Sutherland Computer Limited  

United Kingdom  

Evans   Sutherland Computer Limited  

Spitz, Inc.  

Delaware  

Spitz, Inc.  

Xionix
  Simulation, Inc.  

Georgia  

Xionix Simulation, Inc.  

REALimage, Inc.  

Delaware  

REALimage, Inc.  

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 11
 a07-5744_1ex23d1.htm
 EX-23.1

Exhibit 23.1   

Consent of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm   

  The Board of Directors and Shareholders 
Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation  

  We consent to
incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements Nos. 33-39632,
333-53305, 333-58733, 333-104754, and 333-118277 on Forms S-8 and Registration
Statements Nos. 333-09657 and 333-137637 on Forms S-3 of Evans  
Sutherland Computer Corporation of our report dated April 2, 2007, with
respect to the consolidated balance sheet of Evans   Sutherland
Computer Corporation as of December 31, 2006, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders  equity (deficit) and comprehensive
income (loss), and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2006, which
report appears in the December 31, 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K of
Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation.  

  /s/
TANNER LC  

  April 2, 2007  

  Salt
Lake City, Utah  

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 12
 a07-5744_1ex23d2.htm
 EX-23.2

Exhibit 23.2   

   Consent
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

  The Board of Directors 
Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation  

  We consent to the use of
our report dated March 31, 2006, with respect to the consolidated balance sheet
of Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation and subsidiaries as of December
31, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders 
equity and comprehensive loss, and cash flows for the years ended December 31,
2005 and 2004 included herein.  

  /s/ KPMG LLP  

  Salt Lake City,
Utah 
April 2, 2007  

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 13
 a07-5744_1ex31d1.htm
 EX-31.1

Exhibit 31.1   

   Rule
13a-14 Certification   

    CERTIFICATIONS*    

  I, David H. Bateman, certify that:  

  1.                   I
have reviewed this annual report on
Form 10-K of Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation;  

  2.                  Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                  Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                  The registrant s
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

  (a)              Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

  (b)             [Omitted
in reliance on SEC Release No. 33-8238; 34-47986, Section III.E.]  

  (c)              Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented
in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and  

  (d)             Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and  

  5.                  The registrant s
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions): 

  (a)              All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report
financial information; and  

  (b)             Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.  

  Date: March 30, 2007  

/s/ David H. Bateman 

David H. Bateman  

Chief Executive Officer  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 14
 a07-5744_1ex31d2.htm
 EX-31.2

Exhibit 31.2   

   Rule
13a-14 Certification   

   CERTIFICATIONS*   

  I, Paul L. Dailey, certify that:  

  1.                   I
have reviewed this annual report on
Form 10-K of Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation;  

  2.                  Based on my
knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 

  3.                  Based on my
knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

  4.                  The registrant s
other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have: 

  (a)              Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

  (b)             [Omitted
in reliance on SEC Release No. 33-8238; 34-47986, Section III.E.]  

  (c)              Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and  

  (d)             Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and  

  5.                  The registrant s
other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or
persons performing the equivalent functions): 

  (a)              All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and  

  (b)             Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.  

  Date: March 30, 2007  

/s/ Paul L. Dailey  

Paul L. Dailey  

Chief Financial Officer  

(Principal Financial
  Officer)  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 15
 a07-5744_1ex32d1.htm
 EX-32.1

Exhibit 32.1   

   Certification Pursuant to 18
U.S.C. 1350,   

   as Adopted Pursuant Section
906 of the   

   Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002   

   I, David
H. Bateman, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the Form 10-K of
Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation for the fiscal year ended December
31, 2006, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in such
Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of Evans   Sutherland Computer
Corporation.   

Date: March 30, 2007 

By:  

/s/ David H. Bateman  

David H. Bateman  

Chief Executive Officer  

I, Paul
L. Dailey, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, as adopted pursuant to
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the Form 10-K of
Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation for the fiscal year ended December
31, 2006, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in such
Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial
condition and results of operations of Evans   Sutherland Computer Corporation.   

Date: March 30, 2007 

By:  

/s/ Paul L. Dailey  

Paul L. Dailey  

Chief Financial Officer  

The
foregoing certifications are being furnished solely to accompany the Report
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  1350, and are not being filed for purposes of Section 18
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are not to be
incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company, whether made before
or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in
such filing.   

</EX-32.1>

